Macalloy Corp. v Metallurg, Inc.
2000 NY Slip Op 30011(U)
August 16, 2000
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: Index No. 605123/98
Judge: Martin Schoenfeld
Cases posted with a "30000" identifier, i.e., 2013 NY Slip
Op 30001 (U), are republished from various New York
State and local government sources, including the New
York State Unified Court System's eCourts Service.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 28 
-------------------------------------x 
MACALLOY CORPORATION, 
-against -
METALLURG, INC., Plaintiff, 
Defendant. 
-------------------------------------x 
MARTIN SCHOENFELD, J.: 
Background Index No. 605123/98 
DECISION AND ORDER 
~ \ ~ ~ 0 ,· l,\ ~ ~" 
ib.UG 3 D 2000 
Significant prior motion practice and the 
sions for and against defendant's instant motion for summary 
Judgment make clear that the sole legal issue in this declaratory 
j UU'cjl[Ler1L ctcllun is whether the J:orce maj eure clctuse lu ll1<= 
parties' Sale Agreement of May 19, 1998, relieves plaintiff from 
its obligations thereunder to purchase certain chrome ore. As 
here relevant, the force majeure clause reads as follows: 
ARTICLE 7 
FORCE MAJEURE 
7.01 Force Majeure. Neither party hereto shall be 
liable for any failure to comply with any of the terms 
or provisions of this Agreement to the extent any such 
failure is caused directly or indirectly by Acts of 
God, fire, flood, strike, union or other labor prob­
lems, shortages, war (whether or not declared), riots, 
insurrection, sabotage, plant shutdown, equipment 
failure, inability to obtain material (including power 
~nd fuel), inQbility to obtQin equipment or tran9porta­
tion, changes in Applicable Law, government restric­
tions imposed subsequent to the date without fault on 
the part of either of them. 
Plaintiff contends that its failure to purchase the ore was 
cctused by ct "plant shutdown" and/or by "governmellL resLrlcLlu1rn." 
V 1/ _,.v 
[* 1]
Plaintiff's plant produced a hazardous solid waste. In 199·1 
South Carolina environmental officials agreed to allow plaintiff 
to use a "dry treatment process" on the waste on its site. The 
waste was then transported to an offsite landfill. However, in 
April of 1998, federal cnvironmcnLal official~ directed plaintiff 
to use a ''wet treatment process" on the site. Plaintiff ini­
tially hoped to convlnce the officials to rescind this decision. 
In May of 1998 the parties entered into the Sale Agreement. In 
late June or early July of 1998 the federal officials confirmed 
their directive. Later in July of 1998 plaintiff concluded that 
the cost of the wet treatment and of shipping the heavier wet 
waste was prohibitive and shut down the plant. (See, generally, 
Opposition Affidavit of Hanno D. Mott, 11 5-18) 
Plaintiff states (id. 1 33) that compliance with the federal 
directives 
would have required new equipment, new procedures for 
acceptance and unloading of ore, different waste dis­
posal procedures and substantial changes in its process 
for the production of ferrochrome. All of these would 
have caused substantial additional cost which would 
have elimina.tcd o.ny viability uf Lhe up~rctL.i.vu. 
Thus, plaintiff claims, at best, that compliance would have cost 
plaintiff to lose money, not that compliance would have been 
impossible. Defendant concedes that the plant that was to 
process the ore has been shut down. The legal question is 
whether this shutdown trigger □ the force majeurc c1;:,uac if 
plaintiff itself did the shutting down. 
2 
[* 2]
Discussion and Disposition 
Force Majeure clauses are no stranger to the law. "The 
purpose of a force maJeure clause is to limit damages in a case 
where the reasonable expectation of the parties and the perfor­
mdnce of the contract have been frustrated by circumstances 
beyond the control of the garties." 
National City Bank, 52 AD2d 154, 157 United Equities Co. v. First 
( 1 "' Dept 19 7 6) (emphasis 
added). Here, the government did not order plaintiff to shut 
down the plant. Since plaintiff was in control of whether or not 
to shut down the plant, plaintiff cannot rely on the "plant 
shutdown" clause in the force majeure clause. 
Plaintiff claims that it intended that the clause could be 
invoked hy il vol unt;ary shutdown. However, " [i] n adjudicating the 
rights of parties to a contract, courts . are required to 
discern the intent ot the parties, "'to the extent thc:tt [the 
parties] evidenced what they intended by what they wrote'". 
Slatt v Slatt, 64 NY2d 966, 967 (1985) (citations omitted); 
a,ccord, Peripheral Equipment, Inc. v Farrington Mfg. Co, 29 AD?d 
11, 13 (1st Dept 1967) ("The relevant contractual intent is that 
expressed in the contract, even though it may not accord with the 
subjective intent of the parties."). Furthermore, that the 
"plant shutdown" exception was contained in a self-described 
force majeure clause, along with numerous other events that would 
have been beyond plaintiff's control, militates against constru­
ing "plant shutdown" to include a voluntary shutdown by plain­
tiff. 
3 
[* 3]
Nor can plaintiff rely on "government restrictions imposed 
subsequent to the date." lt is uncontested that the restrictions 
were imposed prior to the date. Plaintiff's subjective (and 
incorrect) belief that plaintiff could convince the government to 
modify its restrictions does not change the date of "imposition." 
Plaintiff also argues that the purpose of the Sale Agreement 
wa.s frustrated. However, "Ll1e doctrine or rrustrat ion or purpose 
is not available where the event which prevented perfor­
mance was foreseeable and provision could have been made for its 
occurrence. 11 Rebell v Trask, 220 AD2d 594, 598 (2d Dept 1995). 
Plaintiff obviously could have foreseen that the federal environ-
mental officials would not change their mind. Finally, we note 
that plaintiff has not, and could not, rely on the related 
defense of "impossibility": 
the excuse of impossibility of performance is limited 
to the destruction of the means of performance by an 
act of God, vis major, or by law. Thus, where impossi­
bility or difficulty of performance is occasioned only 
by financial difficulty or economic hardship, even to 
the extent of insolvency or bankruptcy, performance of 
a contract is not excused. 
407 East 61st Garage Inc. v Savoy Fifth Avenue Corp., 23 NY2d 
275, 281 (1968) (citations omitted). As then-Judge Breitel noted 
(at 282-83), a promisor does not necessarily have to perform the 
promise, only to pay the consequences for failing to perform. 
4 
[* 4]
Conclusion 
Thus for the reasons set forth herein, defendant's motion 
for summary judgment is granted, and the clerk is hereby directed 
to enter judgment in favor of defendant dismissing the instant 
action with prejudice. 
This opinion constitutes the decision and order of the 
Court. 
Dated: August 16, 1000 
J.S.C. 
5 
[* 5]
