D.A. Elia Constr. Corp. v New York State Thruway
Auth.
2000 NY Slip Op 30008(U)
June 12, 2000
Court of Claims
Docket Number: 87413
Judge: Thomas J. McNamara
Cases posted with a "30000" identifier, i.e., 2013 NY Slip
Op30001 (U), are republished from various state and
local government websites. These include the New York
State Unified Court System's E-Courts Service, and the
Bronx County Clerk's office.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.I . 8 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara. 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Y:aled July 6, 2000. 
STATE OF NEW YORK COURT OF CLAIMS 
0. A. ELIA CONSTRUCTION 
CORP., 
-v-
NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY 
AUTHORITY, Claimant, DECISION 
Claim No. 87413 
.. 
Defendant r------==~=~1~c~~~.~~---.· 
I I!....~. J 
. . . . 111.-s-;;;l 
BEFORE: HON. THOMAS J. MCNAMARA 
Judge of the Court of Claims 
APPEARANCES: For Claimant: 
Damon and Morey, Esqs. 
(William F. Savino, Esq. 
and Brian 0. Gwitt, Esq., of counsel} 
For Defendant: 
Hon. Eliot Spitzer, Attorney General 
(Arthur Patane, Esq., of counsel} 
This claim arises out of a cont.~ct between the parties for repair of deteriorated structural 
concrete on fcllr piers of the Castleon-on-Hudson bridge which forms part of the Berkshire spur of 
the New York State Thruway. The work was perfonned in 1991. C:iuses of action for breach of 
r.:>ntract, quantum meruit and unjust enrichment :ire alleged in the claim. E:ich c:iuse of action is 
ple:ided with respect to three distinct items of work in the contract; epoxy bonding compound. epoxy 
morur patching and change in the scop~ of the work of repairing the deteriorJt~d concr~te. I 
.. [* 1]
Claim No. 87413 9 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Page 2 
The essence of the work involved removing deteriorated areas of col'lcrete from the columns, 
cap beams, struts and plinths of the fom piers and filling the voids with newly poured concrete. 
EPOXY BONDING COMPOUND 
The epoxy bonding compound was to be applied to the surface of the existing concrete, after 
the deteriorated concrete v.-as removed, to provide a bond with the newly poured concrete patch. 
The contract provided that the compound was to be applied such that the surf aces were coated with 
a one sixty-founh of an inch film t&'iickn:ss. Because measuring such a thickness is impractical, the 
application was to be considered acceptable ifit appeared wet to visual observation. The contractor 
was then to be paid a unit price for each gallon of the compound incorporated into the work. 
Claimant maintains that it v.-as not paid for all of the compound used on the job because the 
defendant had unilaterally determined that it would pay for the item at the rate of 50 square feet per 
gallon rather than by the method set forth in the contracL 
Although Claimant correctly points out that the resident engineer did not ha,·e authority to 
alter the terms of the contract, i.e. change the method of payment for applying the compound. the 
contract provides that the contractor has the burden of proving tluu it "vas not paid for each gallon 
of epoxy .. incorporated into the work". The proof offered presents several obstacles to reaching a 
detennination that Claimant has met that burden. 
Claimant was paid for 491.89 gallons of epoxy bonding compound as determined by the 
resident emzineer. Claimant contends that it should have been paid for all 1.00 l 1?allons used less 5% - -
for Ylaste. The calculation of the number of gallons for which Claimant contends it should be p;:iid 
is based on testimony by Daniel A. Elia, a vice president of the Claim:mt corporation. th:it the [* 2]
!U 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara. 
Dated June 12. 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Claim No. 87413 Page 3 
contractor applied the compound to an area until told to stop and that all opened cans of epoxy were 
used. 
Carl Niemann, the resident engineer on the project, testified that he interpreted '"incorporated 
into the work" to mean applied in the proper manner and thickness to the work surface. He also 
testified that Charlie Sta!ner, the superintendent for Claimant on the project, performed some tests 
and determined that the compound could properly be applied at a_~t~ ~f 50 sqU&lre feet per gallon. 
He and Mr. Stainer then agreed to use 50 sctuare feet per gallon as the measure for incorporating the 
compound into the work in accordance with the contract standard. In addition. Mr. Niemann testified 
that there were large amounts of waste from such problems as mixing more of the compound th~ 
could be used within frle appropriate application time, having to re-pour failed patches (an item for 
which the contractor was not compensated) and applying more of the compound than \\'&lS required. 
\\'hile Mr. Niemann was on the site on an almost daily basis, Mr. Elia was only at the job site 
five or six times making the latter·s testimony regarding application of the epoxy and waste weak by 
comparison. In ~ddition, Mr. Elia did not offer a basis for how the figure of 5% for waste was 
determined. The proof that a certain number of gallons of the compound \Vere deli\'ered to the site. 
that the contractor applied the compound to an area until told to stop and that all opened car.s of 
epoxy were used has not persuaded the court that additional gallons of the compound were 
"incorporated into the work". Furthermo1e, there is nothing in the contract to prohibit the resident 
engineer and superintendent from agreeing tha! the compound could be applied to.contract standards 
on a 50 square foot per gallon basis. Such an agreement does not viclate the contract prohibition 
a2ainst the resident en2ineer makine unilateral chan!!.es in the terms of the contract. Rather. it - - - - . 
recognizes that the contract standard for proper applicaticn could be achieved ac that r.ne and [* 3]
Claim No. 8i413 .&..&. 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. M~amw-~ 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed .July 6, 2000. 
Page 4 
establishes that the amount of material incorporated into the work was meac;ured using the square 
foot method. The breach of contract claim for the epo>..-y bonding compound is, therefore, dismissed. 
EPOXY MORTAR PATCHING 
This item in the contract involved the application of a product known as Aquaseal gel :o 
underwater areas of the pier footings. According to Claimant, the item was deleted from the contract 
by Defendant after the project was begun because the product, A-quaseal, was not suitable for the 
intended purpose. Under a clause in the contract, Defendant had the right to tenninate any portion 
of the contract. In the event of tennination, however. the contractor was to be reimbursed for 
organizing the work and moving equipment to and from the job where ·he volume of work w01s too 
small to compensate the contractor for such exp;;nses under the contract unit prices. Claimant 
maintains that it incurred expenses associated \\ith this item before the item '"as tenninated and that 
it was not paid for any work under the item. Claimant seeks reimbursement for the cost of 
organizing the work and moving equipment to and from the job and for the costs of returning unused 
materials to the· supplier. 
Defendant concedes that it \\'as detennined that Aquaseal \\"as not proper for applic:uion but 
only on a ponion of the anticipated work. i.e. at Pier 13, and that the contnictor was excused from 
that work. However. Defendant maintains that there were appropri:ne uses for the material in other 
areas of the project and that the contractor misapplied it in attempting some of those applications 
and then requested relief from the item. According to Defendant, the item w:1s deleted from tl,e 
contract based upon the request by the contractor. 
The testimony by Mr. Elia with respect to this item implies th:it the item w:is deleted strictly 
because the material \,_·as :iot appropriate for the intendl!d use. However. Cl:iim:mt does not dir~ctly [* 4]
Claim No. 8i413 12 
Declqjon and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Page 5 
refute the testimony by Mr. Niemann that there were other appropriate uses for the product. Mr. 
Niemann testified that it was detennined that the use of Aquaseal gel was not appropriate for the 
work at Pier 13 but was S'.!i:able for work at Pier 12 and Pier 11. According to Mr. Niemann, the 
contractor did work at Pier 12 but misapplied the product and was not paid for the work. Thereafter, 
Mr. Niemann testified, the contractor asked to be excused from the remaining work and the request 
led to the item being deleted from the contract. 
Mr. Niemann's testimony in this respect was credible as he had specific recollections of 
being able to peel the Aquaseal gel off a pier where it had been misapplied and of seeing cans of the 
material being oum! in a fire in an attempt to heat the product to a temperature appropriate for 
application. In addition, he recalled that the contractor's request for relief was granted e\·en though 
he felt at the time t:lat there \\ilS still good money to be made on the item. According to Mr. 
Niemann, the item had been bid at a cost that involved using divers to apply it and when the 
contractor requested relief there was still work to be done which would allow for simply w;iding out 
to the pier and applying the product. 
Claimant no doubt incUITed expenses in preparing to perform this work and was not 
reimbursed for those costs. However, the evidence offered will not suppon an award for the 
damages claimed. Mr. Niemann·s testimony that the product could have been used for work at Pier 
11 and Pier 12, despite its unsuitability for the work at Pier 13, and his testimony that the contr:lctor 
requested relief from the item \-..ith that work undone undermines the argument that the contractor 
is entitled to reimbu."sement under the iennination clause of the contract. The clause pro\ ides that 
when any ponion of the cor1tr.ict is tenninated for any of the re:isons set forth in the clause the 
contractor may be reimbursed in the manner claim~ her~. Howe\"e:. requests for relief by the [* 5]
Claim No. 87413 13 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Page 6 
contractor is not amcng t.'1-ie reasor.s stated and a fair reading of the provision shows that it was not 
intended to apply in instances where the termination ·was brought about by acts or omissions of the 
contractor. In addition, even if some of the expenses could be attributed to the unsuitability of the 
product to the work at Pier 13, the:-e is no v.ay of detennining from the proof offered what amount 
of the damages claimed might be attributed to that cause. Some or all of those expenses may be 
anributablc to the work where L~e product was misapplied. Any a.ward, therefore, \vould be purely 
speculative. Accordingly, the breach of conL-act claim related to the epoxy mor.ar patching work is 
d!sr:iissed. 
EXTR.\/ADDITIONAL \VORK 
The claim for ex:ra'additional work relates to the replacement of deteriorated St:-".:ctural 
concrete. This \vork was to be paid at a unit price (per cubic yard). Tr.e estim:ited are:?S of repair 
\Vere shov."Il on the bid d:;mings and had been determined, according to the ccntrac!. by field 
ir4Spection. The actual areas of repair were to be determined in t~e field by the E::gin~~r-in-Cha.rge 
(::-eside::! e:!gine~:) a."ld the work\\~ to be performed as ordered by the e::ginee:-:l::C ;::~ic a~ t.~e bid 
_..;_,. &'. .. •h• ·.a .... :'• .,;....., .a.Ca. a... .... 1~ .... •••· 
Claimant mair.tair.s that the work '"':as si~ifica..,tlv ~cx:Efie:i bv Defendant ;:1 t·.·:o ·.va·.-s. .... -. . 
. . . . . . . -. --· . .. . . . . . 
·~~-==-----:::::.:a ::g :::;~a:: c:-. :::e :::-:::e :: s~:::-:.:::-:; ·:-.:-.:c:-.. ·:::.! ~ se~c:...~:~ ;:::. ::~::-. :·~: a.5.: I 
I I [* 6]
Claim No. 87 413 J.'I 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated Jane 12, 2000 and Filed July 6. 2000. 
Page 7 
was advised of the change at a meeting on November 30, 1990 which was prior to the award of the 
contract. Claimant, therefore, was provided an opponunity to react to the change before the contract 
was made. Because the quadrant restriction ·was imposed before the contract was made, the change 
cannot be considered a breach of the conuact or provide a basis for an award of dar.iaees. 
. -
The more significant problem, according to Claimant, was the change in the number and size 
of the repair areas. Mr. Elia testified that in preparing Claimant's. bid. he performed an analvsis of .. . . . 
v1;hat a work activity would cost and that he relied on the bid drawings, which showed areas selected 
for repair, h: making calculations of costs for concrete repair. He testified that there were 170 rep3ir 
areas shov.n on the bid dra\\ings but 480 actual repair areas and the shapes of the actu3l repairs were 
radically differer.! from the largely rectangular repair areas sho\\n on the dra'-'<ings. According to Mr. 
Elia, the location and size of the repair areas were critical functions of estimating cost and whi l~ he 
expected some changes, he anticipated only reasonable modifications. 
ne field inspection of the piers had been Jone by sounding. hammering on the columns to 
determine areas of deterioratio~ and by visual inspection. \\'bile the "isual inspection was rccenL the 
soundin2s had been done some five vears earlier. Mr. Elia testified that he did not believe it was - . . . 
going to be an on-the-job sounding operation because normal procedure is to sound the structure 
beforehand to estabiish repair areas. He also noted a provision in the standard specifications 
indicating that the pians had been prepared whh care and only reasonable modifications in the 
quantities of the work were anticipated. 
Testimony w&!S also cfferd ;,y Douglas ?:i:ssley. an e:igineer .... ;th extensi,·e experie:ice in 
corrosion e:1£i:i~:in£. th.at in an as?~ressiv~ cor.csive e:!viror.mei'lt such as ihis brid!.!e. i:isoe,tions - - -- -. 
:~· sou..'"lcir:g. a:e cr.ly good ~er about two yei-s ;:ind the:-_ bec:iuse of continuing c~~eriOi:ition, th~ [* 7]
Claim No. 87413 ia 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Page 8 
results no longer present a complete picture of the problem. Visual inspections, according to Mr. 
Pressley, have limitations in that they do not reveal smaller areas of deterioration. 
Claimant argues that the contract drawings were not prepared with due care because the 
soundings were outdated and visual inspection was not adequate and maintains that the changes 
amounted to a qualitative change in the nature of th~ work. 
Defendant relies on exculpatory clauses in the contract which bar claims for the difference 
be~·een actual field conditions and those shown on the contract plans. 
The provision in the contract baning claims based on the difference between field conditions 
and those in the contract plans is not effective if the modifications amount to a qualitative c~nge 
in the nature of the work outside the contemplation of the contract as opposed to being a quantitative 
change CTriple Cities Construction Co. Inc .. v State ofNew York. 194 AD2d 103 7). Claimant relies 
on the number and size of the changes in the repair work, the provision in the conL-act about 
reasonable modifications and its expectation that the field inspection w:is done by sounding to show 
that more than quantitative changes were involved. However, the contract indicated that the contract 
dra\\ings showed .. [a]ll the major~ knO\'tn to exist at the time of contract preparation, [and] 
have beCn shown to indicate the aoproximate extent of deterioration to be repaired by the contractor .. 
(Exh. 1-A, p.2, Note No. 40, emphasis added). Warning was also given that the exact extent of 
reconsu::uction work cannot always be accurately determined prior to the commencement of work 
(Exh. 1-A, p.2, Note No.22). A further provision in the contract barred any claim by the contractor 
for work pertaining to rnodificatior.s as may be required due to any difference ~tween actual field 
conditior.s and those shewn by !he details and dimensio:is on the contract pl:ins (Exh. 1-A. p.2. '!'ote 
No.8). In add:tior ... ~lf. ?ress!e\" tes:ifiec th:it in r::\·iewi~2 the cor.stmc:ion dr.iwin!!s r.e !ieted th:it 
,,, . .. - -[* 8]
Claim No. 87413 16 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and Filed July 6, 2000. 
Page 9 
there were no small areas of deterioration shown thus indicating that the field inspection was done 
visually rather than by hammer sounding. He also testified that the absence of small repair are:is 
would have led him to question the dra~ings. Thus the assumptions relied upon by Claimant in 
preparing _its bid, i.e. that the contract drawings were the product of a recent inspection done by 
sounding and that only minor modifications would be made, is not justified either by the language in 
the contract or the contract drawin2S. The modifications, thoW?h laree in number, were reasonable - - ... -.. 
considering the cautiona.ry language in the contract and the infonnation provided by the dra,,ings. 
The breach of contract claim for extra/additional work is, accordingly. dismissed. 
SUMMARY 
The breach of contract cause l -~ction based upon the epoxy bonding compound is dismissed 
on the basis that Claimant failed to prove that it was not paid for the amount of compound 
incorporated into the work. The claim for bre:ich of contract based upon tht epoxy monar patch 
work is dismissed on the basis that the contractor requested relief from the item and bec:iusc the 
contractor ·was.not entitled to payment under the tennination cl:iusc in the contrac.t. The cause of 
action for breach of contract for extra/addition~ work is dismissed based on the exculpatory cl~uses 
in the contract and bccalisc Claimant failed to establish that the change in the number and sh:ipe of 
the repair areas amounted to a qualitative change in the work. Finally, because there was a contract [* 9]
Claim No. 87413 17 
Decision and Order of Justice Thomas J. McNamara, 
Dated June 12, 2000 and F"decl July 6, 2000. 
Page 10 
governing Cl3imanf s entitlement to payment for the work performed, recovery may only be had 
pursuant to the express contract and not under the implied or quasi-contract theories of quantum 
meruit or unjust enrichment <Panetta v Tonetti. 182 AD2d 977). Accordingly, all claims based upon 
quantum ~eruit and unjust enrichment are dismissed. 
LET JUDGMENT BE .ENTERED ACCORDINGLY. 
Saratoga Springs, New York 
June 12, 2000 
SJ. MCNAMARA 
the Court of Claims [* 10]
