Nares v M & W Waterproofing
2001 NY Slip Op 30037(U)
November 15, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0012211/1999
Judge: Marilyn Shafer
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.W YORK COUNTY, 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
e - Aftiaavits - txniDits ... 
I I 
J. S. C. [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 36 
____________________-----------------_-- -X 
JAMES NARES and PAUL KASMIN GALLERY, 
Plaintiff, Index No.: 
122111/99 
AMENDED DECISION 
-against - 
M & W WATERPROOFING and NTJ ASSOCIATES, 
Defendants. 
....................................... - -X 
MARILYN SHAFER, J. : 
For the purpose of convenience, Motions Nos. 001 and 002 shall 
be consolidated. 
Defendant NTJ Associates ("NTJ") moves for leave to amend its 
answer (mot. seq. no. 001). Defendants move for summary judgment 
dismissing plaintiff Paul Kasmin Gallery 
 ("Gallery" ) . Plaintiffs 
cross-move for an order limiting the evidence which 
 will 
be 
admissible at trial (mot. seq. no. 002). 
This is a negligence action. Plaintiff James Nares 
("Nares") 
is a professional artist who maintains a studio at 526 West 
26th 
Street, New York, New York. The complaint alleges that defendant 
M & W Waterproofing ("M & W") was contracted by NTJ to perform 
certain maintenance work upon the exterior of 526 West 
26th Street. 
On October 2, 1999, M & W and/or its agents and employees were 
engaged in maintenance and caused sparks and/or bursts of flames to 
enter Nares' studio through an open window. As a result, a fire 
occurred in Nares' studio. One result of the fike was the 
activation of the sprinkler system., Subsequently, plaintiffs [* 2 ]
allege that 2,149 original works on paper created by Nares were 
destroyed, fifteen oil paintings and six photographic prints 
created by Nares were destroyed, and twenty-one original oil 
paintings created by Nares were severely damaged. The destruction 
of the artwork was allegedly due to the negligence of defendants. 
NTJ seeks leave to amend its answer to include the affirmative 
defense of fraud. 
consultant in the fine arts field. NTJ relies on the affidavit of Martin Mullin, a 
Mullen states that he attended 
the February 21, 2001 discovery and inspection of the damaged works 
which are the subject of this action. He observed what was claimed 
to be 67 separate works of art. He claims that the 67 pieces of 
art work are in reality only 2 pieces of art and that plaintiffs 
are committing fraud by claiming that the 2 pieces of art are 67 
pieces of art. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion, arguing that the proposed 
amendment has no basis in fact and is insufficiently pleaded. 
Plaintiffs assert that another expert hired by NTJ, Steven Leon, 
had inspected the damaged artwork in April 2000, and did not come 
up with the same conclusions that Mullen came up with. Plaintiffs 
contend that since the amendment is being sought by NTJ after 
the 
close of discovery, there is no opportunity to depose Mullen and to 
probe the accuracy of his statements. Such an examination would 
enable plaintiffs to move to strike the defense. Plaintiffs claim 
that they are prejudiced by an amendment of the pleading at this 
2 [* 3 ]
time. 
reliance on its part and therefore, there was no fraud. Plaintiffs also claim that NTJ has not alleged justifiable 
An action or counterclaim based on fraud must allege, with 
particularity, each of the elements of fraud. 
 &e, CPLR 3016; 
Desideri v D.M.F.R. Group (USA) Co., 230 AD2d 503 
 (Ist Dept 1997). 
This is something NTJ has not done, having failed to allege 
justifiable reliance or damages. However, NTJ is not attempting to 
make a claim for fraud, but to use its expert testimony 
 to 
dispute 
the amount of damages to which plaintiff may be entitled. 
Therefore, while there is no basis to allow amendment to allege 
fraud, NTJ will be permitted to use its expert testimony at trial. 
The motion to amend is denied. 
Defendants move for summary judgment dismissing 
 Gallery 
 as 
an 
improper and unnecessary party to this action. The location of the 
alleged fire was not a leasehold or other property of Gallery. 
Defendants argue that Gallery had no possessory 
 or 
consigned 
ownership of any of Nares' property while that property was in the 
possession and control of Nares. Thus, defendants state that 
Gallery has no legal or beneficiary interest in Nares' property. 
Plaintiffs cross-move, based on defendants' motion dismissing 
the claims of Gallery, for an order 
in limine that no evidence, 
expert or factual, concerning the terms of any sale or the 
allocation of any sales proceeds between Nares 
and any 
art dealer 
will be admissible at the trial. 
3 [* 4 ]
In their memorandum, plaintiffs contend that Gallery is a co- 
plaintiff because of the ruling in Swain v 383 West Broadwav Cow. , 
216 AD2d 38 (lst Dept 1995). In that case, artworks were destroyed 
when a steam pipe burst in a storage area of defendant's building. 
After a trial, plaintiff, the artist, was awarded the full fair 
market value of the irreparably damaged works. On appeal, the 
Appellate court ruled, contrary to all existing authority, that 
because plaintiff typically received only a portion of the proceeds 
from sales of his works, he was only damaged to the same 
proportional extent. The party obtaining the other share of sales 
proceeds would be entitled to the balance of the fair-market value. 
In this case, Gallery is the exclusive sales agent for the artwork 
of Nares and, pursuant to an agreement with Nares, Gallery receives 
a percentage of the sales price of every art work of Nares that is 
sold. Deposition testimony of Nares provides this information. If 
Swain is applicable to this case, then due to an ongoing fee- 
splitting arrangement between plaintiffs, the injury to the parties 
is measured by the percentage that each would receive if the work 
were sold. 
Plaintiffs acknowledge that since Swain, the Appellate 
Division, First Department appears to have taken a different 
approach in Indemnitv Insurance Co. of North America v Art Students 
Leaque, 225 AD2d 398 
 (Ist Dept 1996). In that case, the owner of 
a painting received the full fair market value of the stolen work, 
4 [* 5 ]
defeating the argument that the gallery where the work was 
consigned was entitled to its contractual share of the value of the 
work. The court held that the gallery only had a conditional 
interest in the painting that was contingent on the sale of said 
painting. 
to share of the fair market value. Since there was no sale, the gallery was not entitled 
Plaintiffs argue that if Swain is the law, then Gallery is the 
proper party to recover that share. Otherwise, Nares is entitled 
to 100% of the fair market value for his destroyed artworks, and 
Gallery is not a necessary party to that claim, If Gallery is not 
a necessary party, plaintiffs contend that any evidence of a 
relationship between Nares and Gallery for a division of sales 
proceeds would be inadmissible at the trial. 
The usual measure of damages for the complete destruction or 
the loss of personal property, where such property has a market 
value, is its reasonable market value immediately before 
destruction, less its salvage value. Aurnou v Craig, 184 AD2d 
1048(4th Dept 1992). Here, the court will not apply Swain to this 
case. Based on testimony by Nares, Gallery had only a conditional 
interest in the artwork and would earn a commission only if the 
sale of artwork was consummated. This did not occur. A commission 
agreed upon for the sale of artwork is not binding if the item is 
destroyed as compared to being sold. 
ComDanv of North America, supra. 
See, Indemnitv Insurance 
5 [* 6 ]
Nares is entitled to the full market value of his destroyed 
artwork and Gallery is not a necessary party to this action. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED, that NTJ's motion for leave to amend its Answer is 
denied; and it is further, 
ORDERED, that the defendant NTJ's motion for summary judgment 
is granted and the complaint is severed and dismissed as to 
plaintiff PAUL KASMIN GALLERY, and the Clerk is directed to enter 
judgment in favor of Defendant accordingly, and it is further, 
ORDERED, that the remainder of the action shall continue, and 
it is further, 
ORDERED, that the plaintiff's cross motion in limine is 
granted, in light of the above decision and any evidence of a 
relationship between Nares and the Paul Kasmin Gallery for a 
division of sales proceeds shall be inadmissible at trial. 
ENTER : 
6 [* 7 ]
