People v DeGondea
2001 NY Slip Op 30044(U)
July 9, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0002422/1993
Judge: Marcy L. Kahn
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, Ind. No. 
24&2/93 
DECISION AND ORDER 
-against - 
DAVID DEGONDEA, 
Defendant. 
/' On January 5, 1995, defendant was convicted after a jury 
trial before a different Justice of this court' of murder in the 
' first degree, attempted murder in the first degree, criminal 
'possession of a weapon in the second degree and criminal sale of 
',marijuana in the first degree arising from a shootout which 
I, resulted in the death of an undercover police officer who was in 
;the process of purchasing a large quantity of marijuana from the 
defendant. - He is currently serving a term of imprisonment of 
)55 years to life. 
Defendant appealed his conviction, contending, inter alia, 
that the trial court had erroneously denied for-cause challenges 
{to prospective jurors numbers five and eleven. The Appellate 
1 Division held the appeal in abeyance and referred the matter to , 
The trial Justice is now deceased. 
It 
! 
' 
Defendant's co-defendant at trial, Edward 
Arce,'was 
charged with criminal sale of marijuana in the first degree (PL 
§ 221.55) and criminal sale of a firearm in the third degree (PL 
§ 
265.11[2]), and was convicted of both charges. Arce was 
neither a party to the appeal nor to the present proceedings 
before this court. [* 1 ]
L "... . ! 
i 
-1 
 I the Supreme Court to hold a hearing to reconstruct the voir dire 
examination of the two jurors. (Peo~le v. Desondea, 256 AD2d 39, 
41-42 [lst Dept. 19981 
[I'Desondea 
 If'] ) . This court conducted 
the reconstruction hearing, made findings (People v. Degondea, 
Ind. No. 
 2442/93, slip op. [Sup. Ct., NY Co. Sept. 7, 19991 
["Deqondea II"]), and returned the case to the Appellate 
Division which affirmed defendant's conviction (PeoDle v. 
Desondea, 269 AD2d 243, 245 [l" Dept.] , lv. denied, 95 NY2d 834 
'I [2000] 
["Desondea 
 III1'I) . 
'I 
Defendant now moves pursuant to CPL § 
440.10(1) (f) and (h) 
to vacate the judgment against him on the following grounds: 1) 
,$the trial court erroneously denied a for-cause challenge as to 
juror number two, as a result of that court's failure adequately 
to supervise the voir dire; 2) the trial court was 
constructively absent from the courtroom during parts of the 
voir dire proceedings, which deprived defendant of his federal 
,I 
,I 
/I 
' and state 
'trial constitutional 
court infringed rights to a trial 
defendant's right to and 3) the 
appell at e review of 
the denial of his for-cause challenges in violation of the equal 
I 
Aprotection and due process clauses of the state and federal 
/I 
constitutions. Defendant requests that a hearing be held to 
'determine whether the trial court failed adequately to supervise 
//the voir dire, whether that failure resulted in an erroneous 
"denial of the for-cause challenge to juror number two,' and 
Jwhether the trial court's conduct during voir dire denied him 
,I 
< 
'I 
j/ 
2 [* 2 ]
I 
i 
I/ inumbers five and eleven, who expressed an inability to be fair 
,,and impartial in the case due to their relationships with police I 
officers. 
'appellate review of defendant's claim was impossible, as the 
lljurors' responses during voir dire were not recorded and the The Appellate Division found that meaningful 
<I 
trial court had refused defense 
 counsel's request to re- 
interview the jurors, which resulted in defendant being thwarted 
from creating an adequate record for appellate review. (Degondea I 
*-. 
, his state and constitutional rights to a jury trial and to 
,- I, suma, at 41-42). The court also observed that evidence in 
1 I. PRIOR PROCEEDINGS 
I 
Determination of defendant's motion initially requires a 
detailed review of the precise issues raised and decided during 
the record 
"suggest [edl 'I that the defense attorneys 
1 
I "consistently 
 mischaracterized" the jurors' responses, and that 
'igiven contradictory characterizations, it was "clear that the I1 
1, 
/I 
$existing record establishes nothing definitively and precludes 
'appellate review of the court's rulings on the challenges for 
~ cause." 
(Id. , at 41) . I 
I 
I 
I The Appellate Division remanded the case for a recon- 
i 
struction hearing 
 "to determine the substance of the two jurors' '/ 
I 
ti 
I/ 3 
I I I 
I 
I 
I [* 3 ]
.t 
I 
I [five and eleven] statements during the voir dire proceedings 
that relate to whether either juror possessed any genuine bias 
that would preclude such juror from rendering an impartial 
verdict. " (a., at 41-42). 
Pursuant to the Appellate Division's directive, this court 
conducted a reconstruction hearing on January 22, January 29, 
February 19, March 9, March 22, March 30 and June 11, 1999 at 
which witnesses testified, inter alia, to the trial court's 
impatience with the progress of jury selection (Tr., at 126 
[Jan. 29, 19991 , 80 [Feb. 19, 19991) and periodic bouts of 
somnolence (Tr., at 216-18 [Jan. 29, 19991, 77, 81, 94-95 [Feb. 
19, 19991). Defendant's trial counsel also testified that he 
feared aggravating the trial court by pressing for-cause 
challenges in light of previous remarks made by the trial judge. 
,I (Tr., at 82 [Feb. 19, 19991). 
On March 5, 1999, during the course of the hearing and 
based upon evidence adduced concerning juror number two, 
'defendant applied pursuant to Judiciary Law § 509(a) to the 
!;Appellate Division for the release of identifying information 
':concerning that juror, with the apparent purpose of expanding 
Ithe scope of the reconstruction hearing to include his testimony 
'ias to both the trial court's supervision of the voir dire and 
!ithe propriety of the trial court's denial of the for-cause 
lchallenge as to him. (Letter of Claudia S. Trupp, Esq., dated 
$:March 5, 1999). On March 25, 1999, the Appellate Division I 
II 
I! 
I! 
i 
I 
I 
'idenied defendant's application, without explanation. 
~ 
I 
I 
! 
~ 
! 
I 
I 
i 
I 
! 
I 
!j 
! [* 4 ]
ii 
I! 
On September 7, 1999, this court rendered a written 
1' 
I/ decision finding that the preponderance of the credible evidence 
I! 
1 had established that prospective juror number five had stated, 
//in substance, that he would be uncomfortable serving on the jury 
/I 
jidue to his relationship with one or more police officers, and 
!I 
lithat such feelings might affect his ability to be fair and 
 impartial in the case. (Deqondea 11, supra, at 54-55) .' 
In a supplemental brief to the Appellate Division filed .' , 
tiafter this court rendered its findings with respect to the 
ireconstruction hearing, defendant asked that the Appellate I/ 
,Division reopen the reconstruction hearing to permit him to call 
,juror number two as a witness to determine the substance of his 
responses during voir dire. 
I In its Memorandum Decision dated February 17, 2000 the 
,Appellate Division affirmed defendant's conviction, holding that 
'although juror number five may have initially expressed 
discomfort sitting on a case involving a police officer, 
totality of the reconstruction record demonstrated that the 
trial court did not err in refusing defense counsel's for-cause 11 
. *- 
the 
challenge. (Desondea 111, suDra, at 245). The court did not 
,I 
'!address defendant's application as to juror number two. 
,I 
I, 
, 
1, . 
:I 
As defendant had conceded that the trial court's ruling 
:!as to juror number eleven had been correct, this court did not 
,issue findings with respect to that juror. 
(Id. 
 ) . 
I 
., 
jj 
/j 
/I /I 
'/ 
i, 
// 
ti 5 [* 5 ]
..*.- .I 
I 11. RELEVANT CPL 440.10 LAW 
Criminal Procedure Law § 
440.10(1) provides that at any 
time after the entry of a judgment, the court in which it was 
entered may, upon motion of the defendant, vacate such judgment 
upon certain specified grounds. Such a motion informs the court 
3f facts not appearing on the record and unknown at the time of 
the judgment, which as a matter of law, would undermine the 
3asis of the judgment. (People v. Donovan, 107 AD2d 433, 444 
[2nd Dept.] , lv. denied, 65 NY2d 694 [19851 
 1 
- The motion may 
not be used to obtain an additional appeal or as a substitute 
€or direct appeal. (U.; see also People v. Cooks, 67 NY2d 100, 
103 
[19861). 
Before a court may address the merits of such a motion, it 
must first determine whether the claim is procedurally barred by 
CPL § 
440.10(2) or (3). Subdivision two of CPL § 440.10 
"mandates the denial of a motion to vacate a judgment when, inter 
alia: 
(a) [tlhe ground or issue raised upon the motion was 
previously determined on the merits upon an appeal 
from the judgment . . . 
Subdivision three affords the motion court discretion to 
deny a motion to vacate a judgment when, inter alia: 
(a) [allthough facts in support of the ground or issue 
raised upon the motion could with due diligence by the 
defendant have readily been made to appear on the record in 
a manner providing adequate basis for review of such ground 
or issue upon an appeal from the judgment, the defendant 
unjustifiably failed to adduce such matter prior to 
sentence and the ground or issue in 
question was not 
subsequently determined upon appeal. 
6 
- 
! 
i 
i 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I I 
I 
! I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I 
i 
j 
I 
1 
, 
i 
i 
I 
I ! 
I 
I I 
I 
1 i 
i [* 6 ]
.I The CPL 
 § 440.10 motion has been characterized as an 
"emergency measure" designed to provide a defendant with a 
remedy when no other relief is or ever was 
available. (People v. 
Donovan, suDra). Thus, if the facts 
underlying a claim for 
relief were known prior to sentencing and the defendant 
unjustifiably failed to make such facts known to the court, then 
CPL § 440.10 relief is 
unavailable. 
In deciding whether to exercise discretion in favor of a 
moving defendant pursuant to subdivision 3(a), the court may 
excuse the movant for 
failing to place an issue on the record so 
that it would have been amenable to 
appellate review, if the 
ability to raise it had been 
"substantially impaired or denied." 
(See People v. Bennett, 30 NY2d 283, 287-288 
[19721). Where the 
failure to object was motivated solely by strategy or game- 
playing, however, courts have found the failure 
unjustifiable. 
(See PeoDle v. 
Berezansky, 229 AD2d 78 [3-' Dept. , lv. denied, 
1'89 NY2d 919 [1996] 
[failure unjustified where defendant did not 
:'raise legal issue because he was ignorant of legal ramifications 
of 
underlying facts and did not inform his lawyer of them due to 
I! 
his distrust of 
lawyer]; see also People v. Tamavo, 222 AD2d 321 
[l" Dept. 19951, lv. denied, 88 NY2d 886 C19961 
 1. 
Even if a motion to vacate is not barred by CPL § 
440.10(2) 
or (3), the court may, in certain circumstances, decide the 
motion without a hearing, for 
example, where the moving papers, 
inter alia, fail to allege a ground constituting a legal or 
factual basis for tlne motion (CPL § 440.30 [41 [a], [bl 
 1 . 
7 [* 7 ]
.-- I/ 
// 
/I 
/iIII. CONTENTIONS AND ANALYSES 
A. Denial of for-cause 
challense to juror number two 
1. Parties' contentions 
Defendant first moves to vacate the conviction pursuant to 
3 
IJCPL § 440.10 (1) (f) , on the ground that the trial court 
1 
~limproperly denied his for-cause challenge as to prospective 
/I 
;;juror number two. 
itassistant district attorney and counsel for the co-defendant 
;/during jury selection and disclosed to defendant for the first 
ic time during the reconstruction hearing, reflect that juror I 
He alleges that notes prepared by the 
(I 
.'I/ 
I' 
I' 
,.number two was unable to serve fairly. Defendant further 
, asserts that the trial court slept through portions of the 
 voir 
,dire, thereby failing adequately to supervise jury selection. 
tI 
I. ,Finally, defendant contends that his request to recall juror 
number two to clarify his answers was wrongfully denied by the 
trial court. 
The People argue that defendant's motion must be summarily 
I denied pursuant to CPL 
 !3 
440.10(2)(a). They assert that the 
Appellate Division rendered a decision on the merits of 
I 
CPL § 440.10 (1) (f) provides that: 
At any time after the entry of a judgment, the court in 
which it was entered may, upon motion of the defendant, vacate such judgment upon the ground that: , 
[ilmproper and prejudicial conduct not appearing in 
the record occurred during a trial 
resulting'in the 
judgment which conduct, if it had appeared in the 
record, would have required a reversal of the judgment 
upon an appeal therefrom . . . 
8 
!j 
'I [* 8 ]
L *.- defendant's claim concerning the erroneous denial of the 
for-cause challenge of juror number two when it denied 
defendant's application for access to information concerning the 
juror and in its decision affirming defendant's conviction. 
They cite in support People v. Kahn, 281 AD 982 
(2nd Dept. 
1953), and People v. 
Speilman, 26 AD2d 574, 575 
 (2'Id Dept. 
1966). 
2. Analvsis -' 
 t 
ti a. CPL 5 
440.10(2) (a) 
'I I turn first to the issue of whether the Appellate Division 
;previously determined on the merits the propriety of the trial 
court's denial of the for-cause challenge to juror number two. 
(CPL § 
440.10[2] [a]). Neither party has asserted that the issue 
Iof the denial of the for-cause challenge as to the juror was 
raised on defendant's initial appeal. Rather, both sides 
apparently recognize that defendant appealed on the basis of the 
challenges to jurors five and eleven only, and the Appellate 
Division ordered reconstruction as to their voir dire 
examination responses only. 
 (See Desondea I, supra, at 41). 
/,Moreover, the Appellate Division denied defendant's mid-hearing 
i 
'request for access to information with which to contact juror 
inumber two, presumably because defendant had not raised an 
,appellate issue concerning that juror. 
I, 
I 
The Appellate Division's ultimate determination of the 
I 'appeal, therefore, addressed only the issues which were 
originally raised on appeal and referred for reconstruction, 
~ 
i 
I 
i 
I 
I 
! 
i 
~ 
I 
i 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
, 
i 
I i i 
i 
I 
I 
i 9 
!I 
i' [* 9 ]
.? II 
and eleven. Defendant's claim concerning juror number two was 
not addressed in the opinion, and under these circumstances, 
clearly could not have been determined on the direct appeal.' 11 
The 
People's contention that the Appellate Division's 
reference in its original decision ordering reconstruction to 
'I 
Ilevidence in the record suggesting that the defense attorneys had 
I1 
mischaracterized jurors' responses on voir dire, including, 
presumably, the responses of prospective juror number two, could 
not possibly constitute a decision on the merits as to the 
' denial of the cause challenge to that juror. First of all, the 
"claim had not even been raised by defendant on appeal. Second, 
:the court had reached no decision on the merits of the appeal in 
1, 
I 
11 
its original opinion, but rather had ordered a reconstruction 
I1 
hearing which was to address the issues which had been raised on 
appeal, 
 i.e., the for-cause challenges to jurors numbers five 
and eleven. Finally, examination of the court's next statement 
nakes clear that when examined in context, the Appellate 
3ivision's statement merely prefaced, and explained, its 
' Indeed, the court observed that when the appeal was 
2riginally before it, "defendant urged a reversal based, inter 
3lia, upon two jurors' statements that they could not be fair 
lue to friendships with police officers, and we remitted the 
zase to the Supreme Court for a reconstruction hearing 'to 
determine the substance of ... two jurors' statements'during the 
roir dire proceedings that relate to whether either juror 
?assessed any genuine bias that would preclude such juror from 
rendering an impartial verdict' " (Desondea 111, supra, at 245 
[referring to jurors five and eleven] [emphasis added] ) . 
10 [* 10 ]
conclusion that "the existing record establishes nothing 
definitively. " (m., at 41). Accordingly, the court's statement 
in no sense constituted a determination of the issue on the 
merits at that stage of the appeal. 
For similar reasons, defendant's submission of a 
supplementary, post-hearing brief addressing the Appellate 
Division's denial of his request for 
information with which to 
summon juror number two as a witness at the reconstruction 
hearing could not have enlarged defendant's appeal to include a 
new claim involving juror number two, particularly in light of 
the fact that his testimony was never reconstructed. 
Moreover, as the People conceded in their supplemental 
appellate brief, the Appellate Division's denial of defendant's 
request for information concerning the juror pursuant to 
Judicial Law § 509(a) was not 
 "an order made by a criminal 
court" within the scope of permissible review by an intermediate 
appell ate court pursuant to CPL 
 § 470.15 (Supp . Brief for 
Respondent, at 54; Exh. S in Support of Defendant's Motion to 
Vacate Judgment), and could not put before that court an issue 
which had never been the subject of the appeal. 
Finally, the cases cited by the People are inapposite, as 
they each involve situations in which the contentions argued on 
coram nobis review had been raised and reviewed upon the 
defendant's appeal. (Peoole v. 
SDeilman, suDra; PeoDle v. Kahn, 
suDra). Here, as explained above, the issue of juror number 
two's competence was neither raised nor reviewed on the appeal. [* 11 ]
i 
1 
I 
~ 
i 
! 
I 
1 
'I 
I For all of these reasons, defendant's motion is not subject 
to summary denial pursuant to CPL § 440.10 (2) (a) . 
b. CPL 
5 
440.30(4) (a) 
In 
considering the merits of defendant's motion, the court 
may deny it without a hearing pursuant to CPL § 
440.30(4) (a) if 
the moving papers do not allege a ground 
constituting a legal 
basis for the motion. The asserted legal basis for defendant's 
motion is the trial court's off-record 
improper and 
prejudicial 
conduct in denying defendant's for-cause challenge as to 
prospective juror number two. (CPL § 
440.10[11 [fl). 
The right to trial by an 
impartial jury is a fundamental 
constitutional right guaranteed by the Sixth and Fourteenth 
Amendments to the United States 
Constitution and the New York 
State 
Constitution, art. I, § 2. (Duncan v. 
Louisiana, 391 US 
145, 151-54 [19681; PeoDle v. Branch, 46 NY2d 645, 652 [19791 
[lI[nlothing is more basic to the 
criminal process than the riahz 
of an accused to trial by an 
impartial jury."]). 
Procedure Law § 
270.20(1) (b) safeguards that right by 
providiq 
that a party may challenge a 
prospective juror for cause if the , 
I, 
I 
Criminal 
ljuror "has a state of mind that is likely to preclude him from 
1 
I rendering an 
impartial verdict based upon the 
evidence adduced 
'at trial." The Court of Appeals most recently held that a for- 
:'cause challenge must be granted when a juror expresses doubt 
I! 
,about her ability to serve 
impartially "unless the juxor states 
:unequivocally on the record that she can be fair." (PeoDle v. I 
i 
'I 
I 
;'Arnold, __ NY2d -, 2001 WL 670065 
[2001:. 
I! 
I$ 
11 i 
11 12 
I 
~ j [* 12 ]
. 
I, Here, defendant alleges that prospective juror number two 
had said that he could not be fair and that the trial court 
erred in denying the for-cause challenge. There being both a 
legal and a factual basis for his motion, a hearing is ordered 
to determine the substance of the juror's responses when 
examined by the attorneys during voir dire. (CPL § 440.30 [41 [a], 
[bl . 
B. Trial court's constructive absence from voir dire 
I 
I Defendant next asserts that the trial court was I 
constructively absent during portions of the voir dire. He I I 1. Parties' contentions 
I 
I 
I 
irelies on PeoPle v. Tolliver, 89 NY2d 843 (19961, in arguing 
I that the trial 
judge's periodic sleeping during voir dire I 
amounted to a relinquishment of control over the proceedings 
which deprived him of his constitutional right to a jury trial. 
The People argue that summary denial of this aspect of 
defendant's motion is authorized by CPL § 
440.10(3) (a), as 
defendant unjustifiably failed to raise any objection to the 
trial court's alleged somnolence and that this failure to object 
constituted an improper attempt' to obtain a tactical advantage. 
They also argue that the trial court's expressed familiarity 
with the juror's background establishes that he was not sleeping 
during that portion of the voir dire, and have submitted an i 
I 
affirmation from the assistant district attorney who tried the 
case for the People attesting to the fact that he did not 
13 [* 13 ]
-. -.- observe the trial court sleeping. (Aff. of William Greenbaum, 
dated June 4, 2001). 
Defense counsel responds by observing that such an 
objection would have antagonized an already impatient judge and 
could have seriously prejudiced defendant. The defense also 
maintains that defense counsel effectively raised the issue 
through his repeated requests to requestion the prospective 
jurors on the record, which were to no avail. 
2. Analysis 
a. CPL § 
440.10(3) (a) 
According to witnesses for both the People and defendant at 
the reconstruction hearing, the trial court was extremely 
impatient during jury selection. Indeed, this court made an 
explicit finding in its ruling after reconstruction that the 
trial court was impatient and, at times, inattentive. (Desondea 
- 11, suma, at 50). Moreover, the Appellate Division's finding 
that defendant was 
lfthwarted'l in his effort to create an 
adequate record for appellate review supports defendant's claim 
that an objection would have been unavailing. (See also PeoDle 
v. Yut Wai Tom, 53 NY2d 44, 55 E19811 [recognizing that extreme 
form of trial court intervention in examining witnesses may 
excuse defendant's failure to register objection]). 
Thus, I find that trial counsel was "substantially 
impaired " in his ability to register an objection to 
<he trial 
court's somnolence by that court's refusal of counsel's request 
to recall the juror for further questioning. In any case, I 
14 [* 14 ]
find that trial counsel raised the issue with the trial court by 
requesting that the prospective jurors be recalled. Under the 
circumstances, such a request could have been viewed as a 
tactful and risk-free method of permitting the trial court to 
ensure that its previous failure to adequately attend to the 
proceedings did not result in error. Realistically, there was 
little more trial counsel could do, short of leveling an 
embarrassing accusation at the court. 
Accordingly, CPL § 
440.10(3) (a) poses no procedural bar to 
defendant's motion to vacate the conviction due to the court's 
somnolence. 
b. CPL 5 
440.30(4) (a), 
 ( b) 
The legal basis for defendant's complaint that the trial 
court slept during voir dire is that he was thereby deprived of 
his constitutional right to a jury trial. 
!'The presence of and supervision by a Judge constitutes an 
integral component of the right to a jury trial." (PeoDle v. 
Tolliver, suDra, 89 NY2d at 844). In Tolliver, the trial court 
had absented itself from portions of the voir dire examination 
of jurors by counsel. Observing that it is the trial court 
which must rule with respect to the prospective 
 jurors1 fitness 
to serve, the Court of Appeals held that 
"[a] Judge who 
relinquishes control over the proceedings . . . deprives a 
defendant of the right to a trial by jury, requiring 
 ;eversal." 
(a. , at 844; 
 see PeoDle v. Pincknev, 272 AD2d 52 [l" Dept.1 , 
lv. denied, 95 NY2d 937 [2000] [reversing conviction due to 
15 [* 15 ]
trial courtls absence from portion of voir dire, despite 
defendant's consent]). Clearly, a judge who sleeps 
intermittently during voir dire cannot be viewed as exercising 
any greater supervision over jury selection than the judge who 
has physically removed himself or herself from the courtroom 
during portions of voir dire. 
While research reveals no New York decision addressing a 
defendant's entitlement to a new trial due to a claim that the 
trial judge slept through a portion of the trial, in a case 
closely paralleling this one, an Illinois appellate court 
reversed the summary denial of a post-conviction motion raising 
such a claim. In PeoDle v. 
Donley, 314 
Ill.App.3d 671 
 (45n 
Dist.), aDD. denied, 191 I11.2d 541 (20001, the defendant sought 
post-conviction review based upon the allegation that the trial 
judge had been asleep for fifteen minutes during defendant's 
oench trial on first-degree murder charges. There, the court 
reversed the lower court's summary denial of the petition, 
nolding that the defendant had sufficiently raised the 
I'gistI' of 
3 meritorious claim for relief which was reviewable collat- 
srally, notwithstanding the defendant's failure to raise the 
issue at trial and despite the absence of any specific 
3llegations of prejudice. 
The People maintain that federal courts require that the . 
lefendant demonstrate that he was prejudiced by the court's 
somnolence. (See, e.s., United States v. White, 589 F.2d 1283, 
16 [* 16 ]
. *- 1289 
 [5th Cir. 19791 [defendant must show prejudice due to 
court's somnolence in order to preserve issue for appellate 
review]). In White, though, the defendant had complained of the 
trial court's somnolence during the defense counsel's opening 
statement to the jury as constituting judicial disparagement of 
counsel's argument. The Fifth Circuit found that any resulting 
prejudice 
 Itwas so attenuated as to be 
non-existent." (United 
States v. White, suDra, at 1289). 
This case, however, presents a situation much closer to the 
facts of Donlev than to those of White. Defendant Degondea 
complains that the court failed to supervise voir dire, thereby 
depriving him of his fundamental right to an impartial jury. 
(See PeoDle v. Arnold, suDra; PeoDle v. Tolliver, suDra; People 
v. Branch, suma). As was the case in PeoDle v. Donley, supra, 
where the judge was the finder of fact, defendant's allegations 
that the court did not supervise the voir dire bear directly 
I/ itupon a critical role played by the trial judge, namely, the 
/I 
guardian of defendant's right to a fair trial, and do not merely 
concern the court's level of interest in a defense counsel's 
Dpening statement. Accordingly, they are sufficient to merit a 
hearing on his motion. Moreover, defendant has alleged that he 
Mas in fact prejudiced, in that the for-cause challenge to juror 
number two was erroneously denied as a result of the court's 
somnolence. . 
Finally, given the factual dispute presented as to the 
:rial court's conduct, a hearing must be held on whether the 
17 I 
I 
1 I 
I 
I 
i 1 
I 
I 
! 
i 
i 
i 
f 
I i 
I 
I 
! 
I 
i 
I 
i 
I 
I 
! 
I 
! 
I ! [* 17 ]
.? ;rial court, in fact, slept. (CPL § 440.30 E41 
[a1 , [bl 
1 . 
C. Trial courtls refusal to Dermit recall of juror Watson 
I. Parties' contentions 
Defendant finally maintains that the trial court 
xbitrarily and capriciously denied his request to recall juror 
3urnber two, thereby denying him the right to create an appellate 
record. Defendant claims that without the ability to provide a 
record on appeal due to the trial court's refusal, he is 
ntitled to a reversal of his conviction pursuant to CPL § 
$40.10 (1) (h) . 6 
2. Analvsis 
The Appellate Division clearly held in its decision 
remanding for the reconstruction hearing that defendant was 
3enied an opportunity to make a record for appellate purposes. 
(Desondea I, supra, 256 AD2d at 40; 
see Desondea 11, supra, at 
5). Given this decision, defendant's motion must be 
summarily 
3enied pursuant to CPL § 
440.10(2) (a), on the ground that it was 
?reviously resolved on direct appeal. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For all of the foregoing reasons, defendant's motion is 
granted to the extent that a hearing is ordered to determine: 
CPL § 
440.10(1) (h) provides that: 6 
At any time after the entry of a judgment, the court in 
which it was entered may, upon motion of the defendant, 
vacate such 
judgment upon the ground that: 
The judgment was obtained in violation of a right of 
the defendant under the constitution of this state or 
of the United States. 
18 [* 18 ]
1) whether the trial court's somnolence or inattentiveness 
resulted in a failure to supervise the voir dire, which caused 
that court to fail to hear the complete voir dire examination of 
juror number two; and 2) whether the juror's responses revealed 
that he was unqualified to serve as a juror and thus should have 
been excused for cause. 
Defendant's motion is otherwise denied. 
This constitutes the 
order of this court. findings of fact and decision and 
Dated: July 9, 2001 
New York, New York 
PART44 JUL 9 wr 
19 [* 19 ]
