Schwartz v Olshan Grundman Frome & Rosenzweig
2001 NY Slip Op 30025(U)
August 20, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0105694/6941
Judge: Alice Schlesinger
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
0 c 
0 w 
K w U 
W 
>. 
3 
I- o w e cn w 
pe 
v) 
W cn a 
a 
4 A 
LL 
I 
a Justice 
/ 
/ 
-v- PAR $4 
*' 
MOTION DATE g; s- MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits 
- Cross-Motion: L Yes No I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I 
I I 
I I 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
i 
cjl n - 
z'w 02 i=g 
27 0 -J Dated: 
Check one: FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
Plaintiff, 
-against- Index No. 105694/98 
OLSHAN GRUNDMAN FROME & ROSENZWEIG 
and ROBERT FRIEDMAN, 
Plaintiff Tova Schwartz commenced this legal malpractice action against defendants 
Olshan Gundman Frome & Rosenznveig ("The Olshan law firm") and Robert Friedman 
claiming that she sustained millions of dollars in damages based on defendants' negligent 
representation in connection with a commercial transaction in 1995. 
I. The Transaction 
Schwartz founded Light Savers USA Inc. in 199 1. Light Savers was in the business 
of designing and selling efficient lighting fixtures. In 1994 Light Savers went public and 
Schwartz was the controlling shareholder. 
In 1995 the Olshan law firm was retained to negotiate the terms of an asset purchase 
agreement between Light Savers and Interior Services Company d/b/a Hospitality 
Restoration & Builders (I'AGF''). The deal was consummated on August 17, 1995 wherein 
Hospitality Restoration and Builders, Inc. (HRB), a subsidiary of Light Savers purchased 
the assets of AGF from Watermark Investments Ltd. ("Watennark") in consideration for 
* [* 2 ]
delivery of a promissory note in the sum of $2.15 million and 2.5 million shares of common 
stock of Light Savers. 
Schwartz's individual interests were also addressed in the Asset Purchase Agreement. 
The agreement obligated Watermark to purchase from Schwartz an additional 500,OO shares 
at $4.00 per share. In the even: Watermark failed to purchase the shares, Schwartz \vas 
entitled to liquidated damages in the sum of $1 million dollars. 
The assets purchased under the agreement included all rights, benefits and interests 
relating to AGF's restoration and rehabilitation projects in the hospitality industry. Plaintiff 
asserts that the primary asset of AGF were the services of its two key employees. 
Alan G. Friedberg, the president of AGF and Guilermo Montero. Schwartz states that these 
two individuals were responsible for the contracts with major hotel chains and the operation 
of the renovation business (Schwartz Aff. in Opp. @ 7 15). 
Since it was imperative to retain the two employees after the acquisition. Schwartz 
states that defendants were required to make sure that valid and enforceable employment 
agreements were conveyed with the Asset Transfer Agreement (a., @ 7 17). In fact, 
Schwartz contends that on the morning of the closing Friedman was asked whether the 
Friedberg and Monterro employment contracts were "locked up". Friedman allegedly 
represented that the contracts were "iron clad" (M., @ 20). 
Friedman and Montero took a different view of their contracts after Light Savers 
acquired AGF's assets. According to Schwartz, in October and November 1995, the two 
. 2 [* 3 ]
made repeated threats to resign. At the same time Watermark did not comply with its 
contractual obligations to purchase Schwartz Light Saver shares or pay the stipulated 
liquidated damages of $1 million (U., @ 7 24). On November 30, 1995 Friedberg tendered 
his letter of resignation asserting inter alia that Light Savers had not negotiated a mutually 
acceptable contract and by failing to provide 300,000 options. 
Schwartz responded by letter dated December 1, 1995 noting that a three year 
employment contract was in effect and that the resignation was simply a tactic to force Light 
Savers into acquiescing to "outrageous demands". Schwartz threatened to enforce the 
existing employment contracts which contained non-competition provisions. 
Some days prior to Friedberg's attempted resignation, Light Savers terminated its 
relationship with defendant law firm and retained new counsel. Schwartz states that her 
letter did not deter Friedberg. Schwartz's new attorney, Elliot Brecker of Cooperman Levitt 
Winikof Lester & Ne\vman states that he reviewed the Asset Purchase Agreement. 
Although he prepared a letter demanding that the two employees honor the obligations, he 
concluded that the employment agreements were not one of the specified assets conveyed 
and in fact were specifically excluded. 
According to Schwartz, Friedberg and Monterro were being aided by Watermark's 
chairman, Robert Berman, to bring Light Savers down. The three demanded a high price 
for retaining Friedberg and Montero as employees of Light Savers. Schwartz was forced to 
resign, to relinquish her majority share in Light Savers, and to waive the $1 million dollar 
3 . [* 4 ]
liquidated damages provision contained in the Asset Purchase Agreement. Schwartz 
maintains that she had no alternative. Since Friedberg and Monterro were essential to Light 
Savers, she was forced to succumb to these demands to protect her remaining interest in 
Light Savers [Id., @ 321. 
These negotiations were memorialized on February 26, 1996 in a Divesture 
Settlement and Reorganization Agreement which contained a general release. Schwartz 
purchased the lighting business from Light Savers (which she maintains was now 
worthless). Light Savers purchased 500,000 shares for $250,000 from Schwartz. Light 
Savers was also given an option to purchase an additiunal one million shares. Watermark 
was released from its obligation to purchase $500,000 shares at $4.00 per share. Schwartz 
in turn agreed to waive her claim for liquidated damages. 
In August, 1996 Light Savers sought to exercise its option to purchase Schwartz’s 
shares under the Divestiture Agreement. Schwartz refused to turnover the shares and Light 
Savers commenced an action in September, 1996 seeking specific performance. Light 
Savers was represented by the Olshan law firm. The litigation was settled in October, 1996. 
Schwartz received $7 15,000 for 500,000 shares of her stock in Light Savers. Subsequently 
in May, 1997 Light Savers purchased another 500,OO shares for $2,2 10,000. 
In April, 1998 Schwartz commenced this action alleging that the Olshan law firm 
committed malpractice in failing to secure enforceable employment agreements from 
Friedberg and Monterro. Plaintiff asserted that as a result of the malpractice she was forced 
4 . [* 5 ]
to give up controlling interest in Light Savers and did not realize the benefits of the Asset 
Purchase Agreement. The second cause of action alleged that defendants breached their 
fiduciary duty of undivided loyalty. The third cause of action charged defendants with 
negligently representing that the employment agreements were enforceable. The fourth 
count was for the negligent infliction of emotional distress. The fifth cause of action 
sounded in breach of contract. 
Defendants now move for summary judgment. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
I. The Release 
Defendants maintain that Schwartz gave them a general release in the Divestiture 
Agreement. Section 5.1 of this agreement provides in relevant part as follows: 
5.1 Mutual Release between Schwartz and 
Watermark, Watermark-Bahamas, AGF, 1SU and 
HRB. Each of Watermark, Watermark-Bahamas, 
AGF, LSU and HRB (collectively and 
individually referred to for the purpose of this 
release as the "Corporation") hereby fully, finally 
and forever remises, releases and discharges 
Schwartz and her heirs, legal representatives, 
successors and assigns and Schwartz hereby hlly, 
finally and forever remises, releases and 
discharges collectively and individually the 
Corporation and its respective past and present 
affiliated corporations and related entities, and 
respective past and present officer, directors, 
agents, shareholders and employees, and its 
respective legal representatives, successors and 
assigns, and any or all of them, of and from any 
and all actions, causes of action, suits .... 
(emphasis added) 
5 [* 6 ]
Defendants' contention that this release discharged them because Olshan was an 
agent and legal representative of Light Savers and HRB is far from persuasive. Defendants' 
relationship with Light Savers and Schwartz had been terminated in November, 1995. 
Defendants did not represent any of the parties who were subject to the Divestiture 
Agreement. While there is no requirement that the parties to a release be specifically 
identified. it is doubtful that the parties to the February 1996 agreement ever intended to 
release the defendants who played no role in the negotiations or the drafting of the 
agreement. 
11. Legal Malpractice 
In order to establish a claim for legal malpractice plaintiff must prove the following: 
One, the attorney was negligent in failing to exercise that degree of skill and care commonly 
possessed by the legal community; two, that the negligence was a substantial factor in 
causing the injury; and three, actual damages. (Prudential Insurance Co. v. Dewey 
Ballantine, 170 AD2d 108 (1st Dept 1991) affd 80 NY2d 377 (1991). Causation is 
established by showing that the outcome in the underlying suit or transaction would have 
been different "but for" the attorney's negligence (Camel v. Lunney, 70 NY2d 169 (1 987).' 
Defendants also contend that they represented the corporation and not Ms. Schwartz. 
While there was no retainer with Schwartz an issue of fact is raised as to whether defendants 
represented Ms. Schwartz. Ms. Schwartz contends that she believed that Mr. Friedman was 
representing her personal interests as well. She arguably had justification for this belief. She 
stood to personally benefit from the agreement as Watermark was obligated to purchase her 
shares or pay liquidated damages. Presumably it was the defendants who negotiated these 
benefits for Schwartz in her individual capacity. I 
6 . [* 7 ]
Schwartz maintains that but for defendants' negligent advice that the employment 
agreements were enforceable, she would not have entered into the August 1995 Asset 
Purchase Agreement or at least would have structured it differently. Thus, plaintiff urges 
that defendants committed malpractice by failing to make sure that Light Savers was 
conveyed enforceable employmznt agreements. 
The lynch pin to this lawsuit is whether the employment agreements were 
enforceable. Thus the Asset Purchase Agreement requires close scrutiny. Section I, entitled 
"Purchase and Sale of Assets", describes the assets conveyed to Light Savers. Specifically, 
5 1.1.1 provides, in relevant part, as follows: 
1.1.1 Purchased Assets. The assets purchased 
hereunder (the "Assets") shall consist of those 
properties, assets and rights described below, 
which relate to the Seller's business ofmarketing, 
selling, contracting and constructing, renovation, 
restoration and rehabilitation projects in the 
hospitality industry, as such operations havebeen 
ordinarily conducted by the Seller (the 
"Business"), and such Assets, except as excluded 
and set forth on Schedule 1,1.2, include: 
*** 
(ii) all rights, benefits and interests under all 
contracts, ... 
While employment agreements are not specifically mentioned as assets in fj 1.1.1, 
employment agreements are contractual obligations. Section 4.13 of the Asset Purchase 
Agreement lists contracts of the seller. This provision provides in relevant part, as follows: 
4.13 Contracts. Schedule 4.13 hereto consists of 
.. 7 [* 8 ]
a true and complete list of all contracts. 
agreements and purchase commitments of the 
Seller and other instruments relating to the Assets 
or the Business to which the Seller is a party, and 
contemporaneous with the execution of this 
Agreement: Seller has delivered a true and 
complete copy of each such contract, agreement. 
commitment or instrument, certified as such by a 
duly authorized officer of the Seller delivering 
such item to Purchaser. 
Schedule 4.13 lists the following contracts: 
1. Commission and Employment Agreements 
A. June C. McCutchen - No formalized 
agreement 
Salary - $60,000.00 
Commission - 3/4% of all gross contract 
amounts (including change orders) 
B. Richard B. Bluestein - No formalized 
agreement 
Salary - $104,000.00 
Commission - 2% of all gross contract 
amounts and change orders over 1.5 
mi 11 ion annual 1 y 
C. Guillermo Montero Employment 
Agreement 
D. Alan Friedberg Employment Agreement 
Section 4.13 established that the Friedberg and Montero employment agreements 
were contracts. Since they were contracts, they fall with Section 1.1.1 the Asset Purchase 
Agreement and were conveyed as assets to Light Savers. Therefore, the two employment 
8 . [* 9 ]
agreements were arguably enforceable. Schwartz's contention that employment agreements 
were excluded lacks merit. Schedule 1.1.2 describes the excluded assets. It states, in 
relevant. as follows: 
1.1.2. Excluded Assets. Notwithstanding 
anything in this Agreement to the contrary, 
Purchaser shall not purchase, receive, benefit 
from, or be under any obligation with respect to 
*** 
Schedule 1.1.2, or (iv) any Benefit Programs and 
Employment Policies as defined in Section 4.16. 
Schedule 1.1.2 does not list the employment agreements as excluded assets. 
Section 4.16 of the Asset Purchase Agreement describes the employment benefit plans. It 
provides, in pertinent part, that 
4.16 Benefit Plans. The employee benefit plans 
and agreements listed in Schedule 4.16 hereto are 
the only employee benefit plans and agreements 
maintained by the Seller for the benefit of their 
respective officers, directors, employees, or 
independent contractors.. ,. 
Significantly, Schedule 4.16 does not list any benefit programs and employment 
policies and states instead "NONE" (emphasis in original). Had the parties intended to 
exclude the employment agreements they would have appeared on either Schedules 1.1.2 
or 4.16. The omission of the employment agreements from these schedules makes clear that 
the agreements were not excluded. 
Accordingly, the court concludes that the employment agreements were assets that 
. 9 [* 10 ]
had been transferred to Light Savers. This conclusion necessarily means that plaintiff as a 
matter of law can not establish the ”but for“ element. Plaintiff did not to seek to enforce the 
employment agreements. Rather she chose to enter a new transaction with Light 
SaversIAGF. Therefore, plaintiff is unable to show that there is a causal connection between 
any negligent advice and the waiver of the option, her resignation from Light Savers and the 
sale of her stock under the Divestiture Agreement. 
Accordingly, the malpractice cause of action is dismissed. 
111. Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
Plaintiff contends that defendants breached their fiduciary duties in two respects. 
First. defendants did not advise Schwartz that only Light Savers was being represented in 
violation of DR 5- 109(A).’ If both Light Savers and Schwartz were being represented, the 
dual representation violated DR 5- 105 as Schwartz and Light Savers had different interests. 
Schwartz argues that there was conflict because AGF and Light Savers in essence merged. 
The merged entity had Watermark as a parent which was required to purchase Schwartz‘s 
shares. This situation created a conflict resulting in defendants’ failure to obtain security 
for Watermark’s obligation to prchase Schwartz’s shares. 
‘DR 5- 109(A) provides as ibllows: 
When a lawyer employed or retained by an organization is dealing with the organization’s 
directors, officers, employees, members, shareholders or other constituents, and it appears that 
the organization’s interests may differ fiom those of the constituents with whom the lawyer is 
dealing, the lawyer shall explain that the lawyer is the lawyer for the organization and not for any 
of the constituents. [* 11 ]
Second, plaintiff argues that the defendants violated DR 5- 1 08(A)3 by bringing the 
lawsuit to enforce the option agreement set forth in the Divestiture Agreement which was 
substantially related to the Asset Purchase Agreement. 
Plaintiffs argument is based, in part, on the August 17, 1995 letter agreement 
between Light Savers and Tova Schwartz wherein it was agreed that if Watermark failed to 
meet its obligations, Schwartz would be entitled to one million dollars. The letter states in 
relevant part, that: 
In addition, in order to assure that the Obligor is 
able to fulfill its obligations to you pursuant to 
the preceding paragraph, each Obligor shall 
endeavor to provide you with security for its 
performance, such security may include the filing 
of a UCC-I Financing Statement and the 
placement of cash and/or securities in escrow. 
Plainly, there was no binding legal obligation to obtain security. Therefore, the 
failure to obtain security is not a breach of a fiduciary duty. Nor does the court discern a 
conflict which would give rise to a breach of fiduciary claim. Defendants represented Light 
Savers and arguably Schwartz. Watermark was a separate corporation represented 
'DR 5- 108(A) states that: 
...[ A] lawyer who has represented a client in a matter shall not, without the consent of the former 
client after full disclosure: 
1. Thereafter represent another person in the same or a substantially related matter in 
which that person's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client. 
2. Use any confidences or secrets of the former client except as permitted by DR 4- 
IO I (c) or when the confidence or secret has become generally known. 
. 11 [* 12 ]
i presumably by a different counsel. 
Even if there was somehow a violation of DR 5-105, a breach of the Code of 
Professional Responsibility, standing alone, does not state a valid cause of action (Brown 
v. Samalin & Bach, 155 AD2d 407 (2nd Dept 1989). 
Nor does defendants' representation of Light Savers in the subsequent litigation 
support a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. First, the Olshan law firm did not represent any 
of the parties to the Divestiture Agreement. Second, although the Divestiture Agreement 
was entered into between the same or related entities, it is difficult to see how the two are 
substantially similar. They were different agreements with different obligations and the 
defendants were simply seeking to compel compliance with the Divestiture Agreement. 
Schwartz's remedy was to move for the disqualification of the Olshan law firm. Instead she 
chose to settle the lawsuit. Furthermore, it is not clear to the court what confidences and 
secrets were utilized against Schwartz in the enforcement litigation. Plaintiffs objection 
that defendants were privy to Schwartz's "negotiating style and strategies" is not a 
confidence or secret that would support a claim for breach of fiduciary. 
Therefore, the breach of fiduciary duty claim is dismissed. 
IV. Breach of Contract and Neglect Misrepresentations 
These causes of action are predicated on the claim that defendants made an explicit 
promise that they would protect her interests by having in place enforceable employment 
agreements, These claims are redundant of the malpractice claim and are insufficient based 
. 12 [* 13 ]
on the court’s conclusion that the employment agreements were conveyed to Light Savers 
and attempts to enforce them could have been made but weren’t. 
Therefore, the breach of contract and negligent misrepresentation causes of action are 
dismissed. 
V. Infliction of Emotional Distress 
This claim is dismissed because the defendants’ conduct as a matter of law was not 
so outrageous and extreme, beyond all possible bounds of decency so as to be regarded as 
atrocious and utterly intolerable in a civilized community (Murphy v. American Home 
Prods. Cow., 81 NY2d 115 (1993)). 
Accordingly, this claim is dismissed as well. 
In view of the above, defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted and the 
complaint is dismissed. 
This decision constitutes the order of the court. 
Dated: August , 200 1 ‘W A- J.S.C. 
W 
ALICE SCHLES!NGEW 
r.... 
5 13 [* 14 ]
