Wegman v City of New York
2001 NY Slip Op 30076(U)
November 20, 2001
Sup Ct, NY County
Docket Number: 123078/98
Judge: Joan A. Madden
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: 
INDEX NO. PART 
// 
MOTION DATE 
4K2L ,, 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
d 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
/ I I 
I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I I 
Replying Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Cross -Motion: 
 WYes 0 No 
DEC 12 2001 0 
+ a 
W K K 
W L w a 
> 
3 
0 W e 
v) W a 
v) 
W 
v) 
A 
L 
I 
a 
Check one: 
0 FINAL DISPOSITION 
I/ J. S. C. 
@ NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: I.A.S. PART 11 
CHARLES WEGMAN, -X 
 ______________________________________ 
Plaintiff, 
-against - Index No. 
123078/98 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK and THE NEW YORK 
CITY DEPARTMENT OF 
TFXNSPORTATION, 
The City of New York (the 
IlCity") moves, pursuant to CPLR 
3211, for an order dismissing the complaint, or alternatively, 
pursuant to CPLR 3212, for an order granting summary judgment 
based on plaintiff's alleged failure to comply with New York City 
Administrative Code 
 Si 
7-201(c)(2). Plaintiff Charles Wegman 
cross-moves, pursuant to CPLR 3126(3) for an order striking the 
City's answer or rendering a default judgment against the City, 
or alternatively, pursuant to CPLR 
3212(f), for an order denying 
or staying the City's motion, and compelling the production of 
discovery by the City. 
This is an action for personal injuries allegedly sustained 
by plaintiff on May 22, 1998, while he was riding his bicycle 
eastbound in the right lane on West 23rd Street, between 5th and 
6th Avenues, New York, New York ("the Subject Roadway "). 
Plaintiff claims that he was caused to be thrown from his bicycle 
when his bicycle rode over a Department of Transportation 
"DETOUR" sign (the "Sign") , which was lying on the Subject 
Roadway (Plaintiff's Exhibit A, Verified Bill of Particulars 
dated 2/9/99, 
 7 14). 
The City claims that this action should be dismissed since [* 2]
plaintiff failed to show that the City had received prior written 
notice of the alleged dangerous condition, as required by section 
7-201(c) (2) of the Administrative Code of the City of New York 
(the "Administrative Code") . 
Plaintiff does not dispute the City's contention that it did 
not receive notice of the alleged defective condition caused by 
the Sign. 
that notice was not required, or, alternatively, that the City 
was affirmatively negligent in creating the alleged defective 
condition, thus excusing his failure to comply with the prior 
notice statute. Additionally, he maintains that, pursuant to 
CPLR 
3212(f) , the City's motion should be denied, since there is 
outstanding discovery concerning the placement and securing of 
the Sign, information which is in the exclusive possession and However, in opposition to the City's motion, he claims 
control of the City. 
Administrative Code 
7-201(~)(2) requires a plaintiff to 
plead and prove that the City had prior notice of the defective 
condition, unless the City was negligent in causing or creating 
the defective condition, in which case a plaintiff has no burden 
to either plead or prove notice 
(Elstein v Citv of New York, 209 
AD2d 186 [lst Dept 19941; see also, Miller v Citv of New York, 
225 AD2d 396 [lst Dept 19961). Prior written notice statutes, 
like this one, are to be read strictly, and have been construed 
as applying to "'actual physical defects in the surface of a 
street, highway, bridge, culvert, sidewalk or crosswalk' " (Lopez 
v New York City Housinq Authority, 149 AD2d 342, 343 [lst Dept 
2 [* 3]
19891, quoting Doremus v Incorporated Vil. of 
Lvnbrook, 18 NY2d 
362 [1966]), such as holes and cracks, and not to the failure to 
maintain or erect traffic signs (Alexander v Eldred, 63 NY2d 460 
[1984]). 
The negligence complained of here includes, inter alia, the 
City's alleged affirmative negligence in causing "a nuisance, 
trap and hazard to exist on the public 
roadway," and "in failing 
to affix and/or improperly affixing [the] metal sign" (Complaint, 
7 29). Further, plaintiff submits photos of the Detour signs, 
including the subject Sign, and an affidavit by Peter Pomeranz, a 
licensed engineer, who opines that the design and construction of 
the Sign and its supports was negligent. The City concedes that, 
on April 23, 1998, a month prior to plaintiff's alleged accident, 
it placed temporary barricades in the Subject Roadway where 
plaintiff's accident occurred. 
that it was responsible for the Detour signs installed in 
connection with the barricades. A claim alleging a failure to 
properly install a Detour sign, as alleged by plaintiff, does not 
fall within the purview of the prior written notice statute, 
since it is akin to a failure to maintain traffic signs (see, 
Hushes v Jahoda, 75 NY2d 881 [1990]; see also, Alexander v 
Eldred, supra), and does not constitute an "actual physical 
defect11 in the surface " of the Subject Roadway (see, Lopez v New 
York City Housinq Authority, supra, at 343). The City also appears to admit 
Further, prior written notice is not required where, as 
here, it is claimed that the City was affirmatively negligent in 
3 [* 4]
creating the defective condition by its improper installation and 
construction of the 
Sign.(=, Miller v 
City of New York, 225 
AD2d 396, suDra [prior written notice is not needed where there 
was evidence that the City negligently left in place an 
inadequately secured guardrail section adjacent to a sign post at 
accident site]). The City acknowledged that it placed temporary 
barricades at or near the accident site a month before the 
accident, and seems to admit that it was responsible for the 
installation of the Detour signs at the Subject Roadway a short 
time before the alleged accident. Notably, the record is devoid 
of any documentation or explanations from the City regarding the 
manner in which these signs were installed. 
In addition, contrary to the City's position, the affidavit 
of Dorothy Rozier, a member of DOT's Search and Appearance Unit, 
who supervises searches for records maintained by DOT's Traffic 
Unit is not dispositive as to whether the City's affirmative 
negligence was responsible for the accident. Ms. Rozier states 
that a search of records for two months prior to the accident, 
"revealed no records of repair orders or complaints which 
indicate that an employee or independent contractor hired by the 
City of New York caused or created a defective 
 tlDetour" sign 
located in the right traveling lane on West 
23rd Street between 
6th Avenue and 
5th Avenue, about 35 feet north of 40 West 
23rd 
Street, New York, New York." Assuming 
 arquendo that Ms. Rozier's 
affidavit is sufficient to show whether the City's records 
establish prior notice of allegedly defective condition, her 
4 [* 5]
conclusory statements do not negate the City's potential 
liability in connection with the installation and condition of 
the Sign. In addition, summary judgment in the City's favor is 
not warranted since, as set forth below, it would appear that the 
City has not turned over all discovery relevant to its alleged 
role in causing or creating the condition on which the City's 
alleged liability is based 
In light of the foregoing, the City's motion for dismissal 
of the complaint, or alternatively, for summary judgment, is 
denied. 
Plaintiff's cross motion, pursuant to CPLR 3126, seeks, 
inter alia, alternate penalties based on the City's alleged 
refusal to comply with discovery orders. CPLR 3126 provides 
various sanctions for failing to comply with outstanding 
discovery requests or court-ordered discovery obligations, the 
most drastic of which is dismissal of a party's pleadings (Hassan 
v Manhattan and Bronx Surqface Transit 
 Operatins Authority, 
 - 
AD2d 
- , 730 NYS2d 286 [lst Dept 20011). Plaintiff alleges that 
the City has not fully complied with all the directives set forth 
in the preliminary conference order dated July 2, 1999' and an 
'The July 2, 1999 Preliminary Conference Order directs the 
City to provide within 45 days: 
1. Copies of applications, permits, cut forms, violations, 
contracts, repair records, maintenance records, prior written 
complaints, all for subject location two years prior to [date of 
accident]. 
2. Names of contractors and subcontractors working at the 
subject location for 2 years prior to [date of accident]. 
5 [* 6]
2 order of this court dated March 2, 2000. 
While the City denies this contention, its papers are 
ambiguous as to whether the City performed, as directed by the 
court, a two-year search of its records regarding repair orders 
and complaints of the Sign, or only a two-month search. Moreover, 
the City attached documents to its summary judgment motion that 
it apparently did not provide in discovery, including the DOT 
document dated July 21, 1998 indicating that on April 23, 1998, a 
temporary barricade was erected at the accident site, although 
the City claims these documents were not turned over because they 
were dated after the accident date. These discovery failures 
also raise issues as to whether the City complied with the 
remaining discovery directives contained in the aforementioned 
orders. At the same time, however, it cannot be said on this 
Defendant to provide copies of contracts for work being done at 
subject location for 2 years prior to and including [date of 
accident]. 
3. Copies of maps, specifications, records designating where 
"DETOUR" signs were to be placed at subject location on [date of 
accident]. 
4. Copies of any 
incident/accident reports for the subject 
location. 
'The March 4, 2000 required the City, within 30 days, to 
"provide plaintiffs with ... courtesy copies of permit exchanged at 
EBT which the plaintiff marked as plaintiff's exhibit #2" and "to 
review the sufficiency of DOT deposition re: sufficiency and to 
inquire and produce affidavit, if appropriate, re" DOT sign at 
accident site. 
6 [* 7]
record whether the City's failure to comply with the discovery 
orders was "willful and contumacious " so as to warrant the 
imposition of discovery sanctions 
 (See,e.q., Christian v The City 
of New York, 269 AD2d 135 [lst Dept 20001; Villeqa v New York 
City Housinq Authority, 231 AD2d 404 [lst Dept 19961). 
Thus, the cross motion is granted only to the extent of 
directing that a compliance conference be held in Part 11 on 
1, at 9:30 a.m. at which various issues shall be 
considered, including whether the City should be required to 
submit to a further deposition, and whether any subsequent 
failure of the City to comply with court-ordered discovery would 
warrant the imposition of discovery sanctions. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the City's motion to dismiss the complaint or, 
alternatively, for summary judgment is denied, and it is further 
ORDERED that the 
plaintiff's cross motion is granted to the 
extent of directing that a compliance conference be held as 
indicated above. 
Dated: 
November~~,2001 
.+- J.' .C. 
7 [* 8]
