Coda-Gargoyles, LLC v Quantum Optics, Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30047(U)
January 11, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0601638/2005
Judge: Bernard J. Fried
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF T F NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PART "'-?% J.S.C. PRESENT: 
Index Number : 601638/2005 
CODA-GARGOY LES, LLC 
vs 
QUANTUM OPTICS, INC. 
Sequence Number : 001 
DISMISS ACTION INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on thirr motion tolfor 
PAPER$ NUMBERED 
.. c. 
5 Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits if 
Replying Affidavits .- 3 
~ *Tr' .' i 
'q-%--d ' 
Cross-Motion: 0 Yes 0 No 
Check if appropriate: 0 DO NOT POST Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
This motion is decided in accordance with the 
accompanying memorandum declsion. 
rT% . " 1 SO ORDERED 
Dated: 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITtON [* 1 ]
This action seeks damages for the alleged breach by defendant Quantum Optics, Inc. 
(“Quantum”) of an agreement for the purchase of assets from plaintiff (“Agreement”). 
Quantum is the successor in interest to the Agreement. Defendants AAi FosterGrant, Inc. 
(“Mi”) and FGX International, Inc. are companies related to Quantum. Plaintiff also seeks 
an accounting. 
Under the Agreement, plaintiff agreed to sell to defendant certain property, including 
intellectual property relating to several popular brands of sunglasses (“Gargoyle Products”) 
and the accounts receivables of prior purchasers of the brands sold under the Agreement. 
(Perkins Affirmation, Exhibit B). The Agreement required defendants to pay to plaintiffs a 
non-refundable cash advance of $750,000, plus 90% of collections of the accounts 
receivables, and an “Additional Purchase Price”. The additional purchase price consisted of 
10% of gross annual sales of Gargoyle Products for three years from the closing of the 
Agreement. The additional purchase price is set-off by the cash advance, such that plaintiff 
receives no additional purchase price unless defendants sell more than $750,000 of 
1 [* 2 ]
Gargoyles products. 
The parties accepted additional obligations relating to the collection of accounts 
receivables and the additional purchase price: Defendants are required to send notice to all 
accounts receivable debtors specified in the Agreement. Defendants must also maintain 
adequate books and records of the sales of Gargoyle Products and submit to plaintiff 
quarterly summaries and certified annual statements of such sales. Under section 4.6, the 
parties agreed that if any dispute arose BS to the “amount and calculation” of the certified 
annual statements, plaintiff must submit a Notice of Disagreement to defendants within 30 
days and, if the dispute could not be resolved, submit to an audit process. 
In the First Cause of Action, plaintiff claims breach of contract on several grounds. 
First, they argue that defendants breached by not providing notice to all accounts receivable 
debtors as required. Second, defendants allegedly breached by failing to maintain accurate 
books and records of sales. Third, defendants allegedly breached by failing to submit, on a 
quarterly basis, summaries including good faith estimates of the quantity, description, and 
net sales of products governed by the purchase Agreement. Fourth, defendants failed to 
make a good faith effort to market products. Finally, defendants failed to submit a certified 
statement of annual net sales. 
Plaintiff alleges, in its Second Cause of Action, that defendants breached the implied 
covenant of good faith and fair dealing by allegedly failing to properly perform their 
reporting and accounting obligations, failing to develop a business or marketing plan for the 
sale of products, and failing to implement an effective marketing plan for the sale of 
products. 
2 [* 3 ]
As a Third Cause of Action, plaintiff seeks an accounting of all of defendants’ sales 
of Gargoyles products, all of defendants’ sales of non-Gargoyles products, and accounts 
receivable collected by defendants. They seek to determine whether any sales of Gargoyles 
products were mis-allocated by defendants. 
Defendants move to dismiss the complaint, pursuant to CPLR $5 321 l(a)(l) and 
(a)(7), based on documentary evidence and failure to state a cause of action. In the 
alternative, defendants argue for a stay of the action, pursuant to CPLR $ 2201, pending the 
conclusion of an audit procedure as provided in the Agreement. In support of their motion, 
defendants submitted documentary evidence and a memorandum of law. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion to dismiss, arguing that the documentary evidence is not 
sufficient to justify dismissal, the complaint states valid causes of action, and the action 
should not be stayed. Plaintiff submitted an affidavit and various documents in opposition 
to the motion. 
A. Documentary Evidence 
Defendants argue that all causes of action should be dismissed because documentary 
evidence shows that there is no valid claim for breach of contract or breach of the covenant 
of good faith and fair dealing. Defendants also claim that the cause of action for an 
accounting is precluded by section 4.6 of the Agreement, because the Agreement required 
plaintiff to send a timely Notice of Disagreement in response to any disputed annual 
statements, that plaintiffs failed to do so, and, therefore, waived their right to complain about 
the annual sales revenue. They contend that plaintiffs true complaint, essentially, is that 
3 [* 4 ]
defendants failed to sell enough Gargoyles products to require payment of an additional 
purchase price, limiting plaintiff’s earnings under the Agreement to the $750,000 cash 
advance. 
Plaintiff replies that it did not waive its right to complain about the annual statement 
because defendants never issued a proper annual statement as required by the Agreement and 
they failed to submit all required quarterly summaries. They also argue that defendants 
breached the Agreement by failing to send notice to all former account debtors and failing 
to make a good faith effort to market Gargoyle products. 
A motion to dismiss may be granted on documentary evidence so long as the 
documents alone “definitively dispose of plaintiffs claim.” (E.g., ]3ronxville Kno 11% hc, 
v. Webster To wn Center P- ’ 221 A.D.2d 248 [ 1’’ Dep’t 1995 1). The movant may 
not rely on affidavit9 or depositions to support a motion to dismiss pursuant to CPLR § 
321 l(a)(l). (%E; Juliano v Mc&& , 150 AD2d 524, 525 [2nd Dep’t 19893; 
325 West End A ve. Corn., 127 A.D.2d 476,477 [lBt Dep’t 19871). 
In this case, the documents relied upon by the defendants do not, by themselves, 
“definitively dispose” of plaintiffs claims. The Agreement between the parties required 
defendants to provide annual and quarterly statements containing specified data and to notify 
certain former debtors of the plaintiff. To show satisfaction of these contractual obligations, 
defendants submitted a copy of the Agreement, one annual statement, two quarterly 
summaries, and a form letter addressed to “Valued Gargoyles Customer.” However, these 
documents do not definitively prove the sufficiency of the annual statement and quarterly 
summaries, that defendants provided to plaintiffs all quarterly summaries required under the 
4 [* 5 ]
Agreement, or that defendants sent notice to all appropriate accounts receivable debtors. 
Thus, the motion to dismiss on documentary evidence is denied. 
B. Failure to State a Cause of Action 
Defendants seek dismissal. of all of plaintiffs causes of action, contending that no 
breach of the Agreement occurred and the claim for breach of the implied covenant of good 
faith and fair dealing is duplicative of the breach of contract claim. With regard to the breach 
of contract claim, defendants argue that plaintiff waived its right to complain of the annual 
statements by failing to provide proper notice of dispute regarding the calculations in the 
statement and submitting to the audit provision of the Agreement. 
When deciding a motion to dismiss pursuant to CPLR 32 1 1 (a)(7), the facts as alleged 
in the complaint and opposition papers must be accepted as he. A court must accord the 
plaintiff “the benefit of every possible favorable inference and determine only whether the 
facts as alleged fit within any cognizable legal theory.” (E.g, Sokoloff v. H- Estates 
Pevelopmen t Corn,, 96 N.Y.2d 409,414 [2001]; Leon. V. Mm 84 N.Y.2d 83, 87-88 
[1994] ). “The motion must be denied, if from the pleadings’ four corners, ‘factual 
allegations are discerned which taken together manifest any cause of action cognizable at 
law.”’ (Richbell wormation Services. Inc. v. Jup jter Pam. L.P., 309 A.D. 2d 288,289 
[ lat Dep’t 2003])(quoting $1. 1 We st23 2”d 0 v+gGr$cQ-& e al 98 N.Y .2d 
144, 151-152 [2002]). 
To state a valid cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege the terms 
and existence of a contract between the parties, performance by plaintiff, breach by 
5 [* 6 ]
defendant, and damages incurred by plaintiff. (& d E ’ eerinp,C~m,,20 
A.D.2d 78 1,78 1-82 [ 1 It Dep’t 19641). With regard to the terms of the contract, the pleader 
should “plead its legal effect, as he [or she] understands it and purposes to maintain it. , . .” 
(United States Printing &Lithorn apb Co. v, Powers, 183 A.D. 513 [l“Dep’t 19181; Muwhy 
v. New Yo& Ye1 low Cab Co . Sales AQ encv, 207 A.D. 820, 821 [2”d Dep’tl9231; 
Rosenthal-Block Ch ‘na Carp, v, Johm Ha viland China Cora,, 12 A.D.2d 915, 915 [la 
Dep’t 19611). 
The complaint sufFiciently alleges the terms and existence of a contract with 
defendants and its proper performance. Coda-CSargoyles alleges that under the Agreement, 
which became effective on December 24,2003, it was required to sell to defendant assets 
including intellectual property and accounts receivables. (Coda-Gargoyles Complaint, at 7 
9). Plaintiffs claims to have properly executed the sale of the specified intellectual property 
and fulfilled all its obligations. 
Plaintiff also alleges that the Agreement required defendants to pay a portion of 
accounts receivables and a purchase price comprising an “$750,000 cash advance . . . to be 
set-off against” an additional purchase price of “10% of [dlefendants’ sales of Gargoyles 
Products from the closing date.” (Coda-Gargoyles Compl., at 7 10). Following the sale, 
defendants were required to provide notice to accounts receivable customers. At the 
conclusion of each quarter, defendants were to provide quarterly statements showing their 
“good faith estimates of the quantity, description and net sales of Gargoyles Products, listed 
by each Gargoyles Product.” (Coda-Gargoyles Compl., at 7 27). At the end of each fiscal 
year, defendants were to provide annual statements “in sufficient detail to show the quantity, 
6 [* 7 ]
description and net sales of the Gargoyles Products for which payment was received during 
the preceding fiscal year.” (Coda-Gargoyles Compl., at 7 17). Plaintiff alleges that the 
Agreement required annual statements “to be certified by [dlefendants’ chief financial 
officer. , . .” 
Finally, plaintiff alleges defendants breached their obligations under the contract and 
that the breach caused plaintiff damage. The complaint alleges, among other things, that 
defendants failed “to notify all accounts receivable customers, maintain accurate books and 
records of sales of Gargoyle Products, submit . . . quarterly summaries, . . . and submit 
certified annual net sales. . . .” (Coda-Gargoyles Compl., at 7 27). Plaintiff also argues that 
defendants breached the contract by failing to make good faith efforts to market Gargoyle 
Products. The complaint alleges damages in the form of a low level of sales of Gargoyles 
products, causing no Additional Purchase Price to be paid to plaintiff. 
Defendants contend that plaintiff waived any right to complain of the annual 
statement because plaintiff failed to fulfill a condition precedent. They argue that, under the 
Agreement, plaintiff was required to file within 30 days a Notice of Disagreement if it 
disagreed with the “amount or calculation of the Additional Purchase Price set forth in an 
annual statement” and plaintiff failed to timely file the Notice with respect to the defendants’ 
2004 annual statement of sales of Gargoyles Products. However, plaintiffs’ complaint with 
respect to the 2004 annual statement is that it is not as detailed as required by the Agreement. 
They do argue that defendants’ failure to aggressively market Gargoyles Products caused 
damages; but, plaintiff does not allege any breach of contract based on the “amount or 
calculation” of figures stated in the annual statement. They allege that neither the annual 
7 [* 8 ]
statement or the quarterly summaries provided the information required by the Agreement. 
Also, plaintiff claims defendants failed to furnish all required quarterly summaries. 
Furthermore, the obligation to file a Notice of Disagreement applies to disputes 8s to the 
“amount and calculation” of annual statements but not to disputes regarding quarterly 
summaries. 
The complaint states a valid cause of action for breach of contract with respect to 
both the annual statements and quarterly summaries. 
Defendants also argue that the cause of action based on breach of the implied duty 
of good faith and fair dealing should be dismissed because it is duplicative of plaintiffs 
cause of action for breach of contract. I agree. 
A covenant of good faith and fair dealing exists impliedly in every contract. (Wood 
v. Lucy. bdv D uff-GorclQn, 222 N.Y. 88, 90-91 [1917]; Jaffe v. Pmoun t 
CQmlll unicat ions. Inc., 222 A.D.2d 17, 22-23 [lat Dep’t 19961). Breach of the implied 
covenant constitutes a breach of the contract. (& generally me v, ParalTlOlNl t 
Communications. hc., suprrt, 222 A.D.2d at 22-23). Thus, a cause of action for breach of 
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing should be dismissed when the claims 
made under that cause of action are duplicative of claims made under a cause of action for 
breach of contract. (& . Rese Corp ., 268 A.D.2d 358,358-59 [ 1” 
Dep’t 2OOOJ; Apfel v, Prudential-Back S ecurities. Jhc ., 182 A.D.2d 439 [ lnt Dep’t 19921; 
A. Rd. Inc. v. Word wide Drems. LLC, 2004 WL 1563352, at 1-2). 
Plaintiff’s claims under its cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good 
8 [* 9 ]
faith and fair dealing duplicate its claims for breach of contract. In its first cause of action, 
plaintiff alleges that defendants breached the contract “by failing to inter aZia . . , maintain 
accurate books and records of sales of Gargoyles products; . . . submit . . , quarterly 
summaries; make a good faith effort to market Gargoyles products; and, . . . submit a 
certified statement of the annul net sales. . . .” Plaintiff does not elaborate as to what 
comprises a good faith effort to market Gargoyles Products but does allege, in paragraph 19 
of the complaint, that defendants “never provided . . . any sales, marketing or business plans 
relating to their sale of Gargoyles Products. The second cause of action alleges that 
defendants breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by “failing to 
perform . . . its reporting and accounting obligations; . . . by failing to develop a business or 
marketing plan . . . and failing to implement an effective marketing plan. . . .” The claims, 
in this second cause of action, based on failure to perform reporting and accounting 
obligations are duplicative of its claims under the first cause of action based on defendants’ 
failure to submit quarterly summaries and certified statements of annual net sales. 
Defendants’ reporting and accounting obligations consist, primarily, of submitting 
sufficiently detailed quarterly summaries and annual statements. Similarly, the claims in the 
second cause of action, based on defendants’ failwe to develop and implement business or 
marketing plans, are equivalent to the claim in the first cause of action for failure “to make 
a good faith effort to market Gargoyles Products.” Thus, the second cause of action is 
duplicative of the first and must be dismissed. 
Defendants argue that the third cause of action should be dismissed because plaintiff 
9 [* 10 ]
allegedly waived its right to complain by failing to file a timely Notice of Disagreement with 
regard to the annual statement. They contend that, rather than bring an action for an 
accounting, plaintiff must submit to the audit procedure as provided for in the Agreement. 
However, as discussed above, this argument fails because a Notice of Disagreement 
is required only when there is a dispute as to the “amount or calculation,’ of the annual 
statement. Plaintiff does not attack the ccamount and calculation” ofthe muaI statement but 
contends that defendants breached by, among other things, failing to provide suficient detail 
in the annual statement. The Agreement requires an audit only where there is a dispute with 
the “amount and calculation” of an annual statement. Thus, plaintiff is not required to 
submit to an audit and has not waived its right to bring a cause of action for an accounting. 
C. Stay of the Proceedings 
Alternatively, defendants move to stay this action while an audit is performed 
according to section 4.6, contending that plaintiff. are obligated to submit to the audit 
procedure in order to resolve any dispute regarding “the [sltatements and the underlying 
books and records. . . .” 
As discussed above, the audit procedures provided for under the Agreement only 
apply to disputes over the “amount and calculation” of annual statements which is not 
disputed by plaintiff. The complaint does not trigger the audit provisions under the 
Agreement. Although the parties could on their own volition submit to an audit, there is no 
basis for this action to not proceed. Therefore, the motion to stay this action is denied. 
10 [* 11 ]
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the motion to dismiss the first cause of action is denied, and it is 
further 
ORDERED that the motion to dismiss the second cause of action is granted, and it 
is further 
ORDERED that the motion to dismiss the third cause of action is denied, and it is 
further 
ORDERED that the motion to stay the proceedings is denied. 
11 ENTER: [* 12 ]
