Ugweches v 600 W. 218 St. Assoc., LLC
2001 NY Slip Op 30071(U)
December 20, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 120569-2000
Judge: Jane S. Solomon
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
-v- INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED I 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... i 
-1-3 
/ I I Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits 
Dated: 
5 
Check one: FINAL DISPOSITION 
 m-DI S POS ITI o N [* 1]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK, IAS PART 55 -X 
AUSTEN UGWECHES, 
-----_____________------------------ 
Plaintiff, 
-against - 
600 WEST 218 ST. ASSOCIATES, LLC, 
SAMSON MANAGEMENT CORP., ARNOLD 
GOLDSTEIN, individually and as President 
thereof, MONTE CESTA, CESAR SANCHEZ 
and "MARIA RIVERA -APT. 3B" , DECISION AND ORDER 
Index No.: 
120569/00 
JANE S. SOLOMON, J.: 
Defendants 600 West 218 St. Associates, LLC ("600 West 
218") , Samson Management Corp. 
(llSamsonll) , Arnold Goldstein 
(l1Goldsteinl1) individually and as President thereof, Monte Cesta 
(l'CestaIl) and Cesar Sanchez 
 (IlSanchezii) (collectively, 
"management 
 defendants") move to dismiss the complaint under CPLR 
3014, 3016 and 3211(a) (7). By separate motion (002) , defendant 
Maria Rivera 
(IlRivera") also moves to dismiss the complaint and 
for summary judgment. This lawsuit arises from a dispute between 
plaintiff Austen Ugweches 
 (ltUgwechesl1) and the owners, management 
and a certain resident of a co-operatively owned apartment 
building in Manhattan in which Ugweches appears to be a non- 
owning tenant. The two motions are decided together herein. 
600 West 218 owns the apartment building at 600 West 
218th Street, where Ugweches resides. Samson is the managing 
agent. Goldstein is president of Samson; Cesta is employed by 
Samson as the manager for the building; and Sanchez is employed 
by Samson as the building superintendent. 
Goldstein, Cesta and Sanchez arise from their duties as employees The claims against [* 2]
of Samson. Rivera is a resident in the building who lives in the 
apartment below Ugweches. 
Ugweches complains that he had a dispute with Rivera, 
who allegedly makes a great deal of noise and causes foul odor to 
seep into his apartment. He alleges that she is doing this to 
force him to leave his apartment in apparent concert with the 
management defendants, who failed to prevent her behavior. He 
also is upset because he requested a parking space, and Sanchez 
did not rent him one. He complains that repairs in his apartment 
were -not done, and repairs to other apartments irritated him. He 
complains that a security deposit he gave to Samson for a parking 
space is excessive, and the rent on his apartment was increased 
improperly. He complains that Sanchez and Rivera made defamatory 
comments about him. He makes other allegations about defendants 
in a similar vein. 
A preliminary conference was held on June 25, 2001 and 
an order was made that set forth a discovery schedule. In 
opposition to the motion, Ugweches complains that discovery has 
not proceeded as ordered. However, at a conference on October 1, 
2001, discovery was stayed pending these motions. 
Defendants argue that Ugweches fails to state a claim. 
When a party seeks dismissal for failure to state a cause of 
action, that cause of action must be liberally construed in the 
plaintiff's favor, 
a, Rovello v Orofino Realty Co., Inc., 40 
xY2d 633 (19761, and if it is at all possible for the plaintiff 
to recover under any allegation, the motion must be denied. 
2 [* 3]
Guqqenheimer v 
Ginzburq, 43 NY2d 268 (1977); Wiener v Lazard 
Freres & Co., 241 AD2d 114 (lst Dept 1998). The issues are 
limited to whether the pleading states any cause of action, not 
whether there is any evidentiary support for the complaint 
 e, 
Bernstein v Kelso & Co., Inc., 231 AD2d 314 (lst Dept 1997) , and 
the court is required to view every allegation as true and 
resolve all inferences in favor of the plaintiff, regardless of 
whether the plaintiff will prevail on the merits. Gay Teachers 
Association v Board of Education of the City School District of 
the Citv of New York, 183 AD2d 478 (1" Dept 1992). 
Here, the complaint does not set forth any cause of 
action, but instead contains many allegations, leaving it to the 
court to discern what the claims may be. Four are discernable: 
Defamation as against Sanchez and Rivera, nuisance as against 
Rivera (due to noise and odor from her apartment), 600 West 218 
and Samson (for suffering repairs to be made to a neighboring 
apartment), breach of contract as against 600 West 218, and 
breach of duty against 600 West 218 and Samson for failing to 
intervene in and resolve Ugweches's dispute with Rivera. 
The defamation claim is dismissed because it fails to 
specify what the allegedly defamatory statement was, when made 
and to whom. CPLR 
3016(a). The nuisance claim is dismissed as 
against all management defendants because the only activity 
alleged to have caused a nuisance was renovation of a nearby 
apartment in September 2000, which activity is not unreasonable 
and does not support a nuisance claim. 
3 [* 4]
Rivera alternatively moves for dismissal and for 
summary judgment. In support of summary judgment, she argues 
that Ugweches's allegations regarding noise and odor are 
factually incorrect, and she refers to a report prepared by the 
fire department in response to a complaint by Ugweches that 
Rivera was burning toxic substances to force him out. The report 
states that a fire department investigator was met by Ugweches, 
who ranted about toxic fumes, but that the investigator noticed 
only the scent of incense and spicy cooking in Rivera's 
apartment. Ugweches argues that he has his own fire department 
report that supports his claim, but he is saving it for trial. 
He also states that the fire department report is unreliable 
because Rivera is romantically involved with a firefighter. A 
party opposing summary judgment must lay bear his proof or risk 
an adverse determination. Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 
(1986). Here, Rivera's contention that she is not leaking toxic 
fumes into Ugweches's apartment is corroborated by the fire 
department report. The report is based upon the investigator's 
personal observations, so is admissible as a business record. 
Ugweches's statements in the report likewise are admissible as 
admissions, and the report states that he claimed that the 
incense and spicy food smells were toxic fumes, thereby 
discrediting his claims in the complaint about such fumes. 
Ugweches submits no proof in opposition except to suggest, 
without proof, that the report is the result of bias. 
Accordingly, the claim against Rivera regarding odors is 
4 [* 5]
dismissed. 
Rivera also argues correctly that she does not control 
Ugweches's water or other services, so his complaints regarding 
those problems also are dismissed. Further, she argues that his 
allegations of 
I1harassmentl1 must be referred to the NYS Division 
of Housing and Community Renewal 
 (l1DHCR1) because it alone has 
jurisdiction over a tenant harassment claim made under Rent 
Stabilization Code ยง 2525 (which addresses harassment claims by 
rent stabilized tenants against their landlords). Rivera's 
argument is well founded, and his claim that Rivera is making 
noise as part of a concerted effort with the management 
defendants to harass him out of his apartment is not properly 
before this court. 
With respect to 
Ugwechesls breach of contract claim, 
his claim that he is entitled to a parking space is meaningless 
absent some agreement that 600 West 218 would provide it. There 
being no such allegation, no claim exists. His allegation that 
Sanchez refused his demand for a parking space is describing 
reasonable conduct by a managing agent's employee in the context 
alleged in the complaint. 
To the extent that he claims that a security deposit 
was given to 600 West 218 or Samson for a parking space never 
provided, or that he incurred expenses to make repairs in his 
apartment that they were obligated to perform, he may have a 
claim assertable in small claims court. As for his allegation 
that he has been subjected to rent increases, there is no basis 
5 [* 6]
for the claim in the absence of a lease providing for a 
particular rent. If he is a rent stabilized tenant, as suggested 
by the complaint's reference to the Rent Stabilization Code, then 
this court has no jurisdiction to determine the correct rent and 
his allegations are properly directed to the DHCR. 
Finally, Ugweches alleges that the management 
defendants were reckless and negligent for failing to Ilcorrect 
the complained of 
conditions," by which it appears that he 
alleges that they had a duty to rectify his complaints against 
Rivera. In opposition to the motion, he fails to demonstrate 
that such a duty may be imposed on any of the individual 
defendants, and so that part of the complaint also is dismissed 
against them. With respect to this claim against 600 West 218 
and Samson, although a landlord and managing agent may be 
obligated to take steps to prevent abusive conduct by one tenant 
against another in some circumstances, Ugweches does not allege 
that he sought their assistance. Absent an allegation that the 
landlord or managing agent have not responded to complaints 
regarding Rivera's conduct, no claim is stated. 
In light of the foregoing, it hereby is 
6 [* 7]
ORDERED that the motions to dismiss by all defendants 
(001 and 002) are granted and the complaint is dismissed without 
prejudice to proceedings at the DHCR or a new, clearly pleaded 
action in an appropriate forum with respect to plaintiff's claims 
against 600 West 218 and Samson to recover rent overcharges, 
excess security deposit and out of pocket repair costs, and the 
Clerk of the Court is directed to enter judgment accordingly with 
costs and disbursements as taxed upon submission of an 
appropriate bill of costs. 
Dated: 
Decemberb , 2001 
ENTER : 
.c. 
7 [* 8]
