Tulovic v Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
2001 NY Slip Op 30023(U)
September 4, 2001
Supreme Court, Kings County
Docket Number: 0029613/9613
Judge: Theodore T. Jones
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.P R E S E N T: At an IAS Term, Part 14 of the Supreme 
Court of the State of New York, held in and 
for the County of Kings, at the Courthouse, 
at Civic Center, Brooklyn, New York, on the 
4th day of September, 2001 
Plain tiffs , 
- against - Index No. 29613/95 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, N.A., EDWARD S. 
GORDON COMPANY, INC., MORSE DIESEL 
INTERNATIONAL, NICO/MDI, a division of Morse Diesel 
International, NlCO GENERAL CONTRACTORS, INC., 
and MORSE DIESEL, INC., 
Defendants. 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, N.A., EDWARD S. 
GORDON COMPANY, INC., -X ........................................ 
Third- Party Plain tiffs, 
- against - Index No. 77464196 
ISS CLEANING SERVICES GROUP, INC., f/k/a 
NATIONAL CLEANING CONTRACTORS, INC., 
Third-party Defendants. 
-x ........................................ 
The followina papers numbered 1 to 11 read on this motion: 
Notice of MotionIOrder to Show Cause/ 
Petition/Cross Motion and Papers Numbered 
Affidavits (Affirmations) Annexed 1-5 
Opposing Affidavits (Affirmations) 8-9 
Reply Affidavits (Affirmations) 10-1 1 
Affidavit (Affirmation) 
Other Papers [* 1 ]
Upon the foregoing papers, third-party defendant ISS International Service System, 
Inc. s/h/a ISS Cleaning Services Group, Inc., formally known as National Cleaning 
Contractors, Inc. (hereinafter “ISS”) moves for an order, pursuant to CPLR 32 12, granting 
summary judgment dismissing the third-party complaint of defendantshhird-party plaintiffs, 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (hereinafter “Chase”) and Edward S. Gordon Company, 
Inc. (hereinafter “ESG”) and all cross claims insofar as asserted against it. Chase and ESG 
cross-move for an order, pursuant to CPLR 32 12, granting summary judgment dismissing 
plaintiffs’ complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against them, or alternatively, 
granting Chase and ESG summary judgment on their claims against ISS and defendant 
Morse Diesel International (“Morse”) for contractual indemnity and breach of contract for 
failure to procure insurance. 
Factual Background 
Plaintiff Osman Tulovic (“plaintiff ’) and his wife, Naima Tulovic, seek to recover 
damages for personal injuries plaintiff allegedly sustained as the result of a trip and fall 
accident which occurred on October 4, 1994 at a construction site at One New York Plaza 
in New York City. At the time of the accident, the premises, which was owned by Chase, 
was undergoing extensive renovations. ESG was the construction supervisor for the 
renovation project, and Morse was the construction manager. Pursuant to a written 
agreement, ISS, a cleaning contractor, was hired by ESG to provide general cleaning 
services throughout the building, including the loading dock area and garage drivewayhamp. 
Plaintiff was employed by ISS as a porter at the time of the accident. The accident occurred 
2 [* 2 ]
when the plaintiff tripped and fell over iron wires which protruded out of the base of a wall 
that had been partially demolished. 
At his deposition, the plaintifftestified that, on the morning of the incident, he arrived 
at the building at approximately 6:OO a.m.. Upon his arrival, plaintiff was instructed by 
ESG’s night building manager, Joseph Durand, to sweep the loading dock area and collect 
the garbage (consisting of soda cans, bottles and plastic bags) from said area. According to 
plaintiff, the loading dock area was undergoing construction. HOWCVC~, plaintiff claimcd 
that he had not been instructed to clean any of the construction materials or debris. The 
loading dock was one flight lower than the first floor of the building. The driveway, which 
led from the street to the loading dock, was approximately 50 to 60 feet long. The accident 
occurred as plaintiff was sweeping the driveway. After plaintiff swept his way down the 
right side of the driveway, he reached the loading dock, turned around and began sweeping 
his way up the left side. Plaintiff had worked up about 10 to 15 feet on that side of the 
driveway when he heard a truck coming out from the loading dock heading upward. In 
order to make room for the truck to pass, plaintiff hurried to collect some papers which were 
on the ground. As he did so, the heel of his shoe stumbled on a piece of iron wire, causing 
him to fall into the driveway wall and onto the sidewalk. Plaintiff described the incident as 
follows: 
The accident happened at the time when I was sweeping and I 
was trying to expedite the sweeping because I had so much to 
do, and then I heard a truck coming out from the loading dock 
headed upward. I hurried up to collect some papers which were 
lying down there so I could make room for the truck to pass, 
3 [* 3 ]
and then my leg, my heel of my shoe, stumbled on a piece of 
iron wire, piece of wire, a rod. (Tulovic dep, July 14, 1997, at 
42) 
The wire on which the plaintiff stumbled was one of many which protruded 
downward out of the corner of the wall adjacent to the driveway. According to plaintiff, the 
wall in question had been partially demolished by a construction company two to four weeks 
prior to his accident, and the wires had remained exposed on the driveway since that time. 
During this two to four week period before the accident, plaintiff had observed the wires 
everyday whenever he went to the loading dock area. Plaintiff further testified that he 
noticed the wires on the ground immediately before the accident, while he was cleaning the 
garbage in the driveway area, and that he had complained about the wire on many occasions 
to ESG’s building manager and to the construction foreman. 
Ralph Ardolina testified on behalf of ESG at a deposition. Ardolina was the 
Executive Property Manager for ESG at the subject premises at the time of the accident. 
According to Ardolina, ESG managed the building for Chase and acted as the construction 
superviscir for the rcnovation projcct. As the Eliccutivc Property Manager, Ardolina’s dutics 
consisted of overseeing the day to day operations. ESG acted as a liaison between Chase 
and Morse. Ardolina testified that the renovations involved working in areas surrounding 
the loading dock and the ramp/driveway where plaintiff was allegedly injured. According 
to Ardolina, the wall adjacent to the subject ramp was partially demolished sometime in 
1994 by a subcontractor under the supervision of Morse. Ardolina further testified that he 
4 [* 4 ]
was responsible for making sure that ISS completed its work and adhered to the terms if its 
contract. In order to accomplish this task, Ardolina made periodic inspections of ISS’s 
work. Ardolina testified that ISS was not responsible for cleaning up after the contractors 
or removing construction debris on the project. Rather, the contractors were responsible for 
cleaning up after themselves. 
Edward Bigley testified on behalf of Morse at a deposition. Bigley was the general 
superintendent assigned to the renovation project from 1993 through the suiim~t‘r of 1995. 
Morse had approximately 12 other employees on the site, consisting of several other 
superintendents and assistant superintendents, project managers, assistant proj ect managers 
and a safety project manager. During that time, Bigley was responsible for the 
coordinatiodadministration of daily on-site activities at the building. Bigley was present at 
the site five days a week (Monday through Friday), and walked through the premises twice 
daily, once in the morning and once after lunch. He also attended “safety meetings’’ which 
were conducted by Morse. According to Bigley, the purpose of the meetings was to ensure 
compliance with building codes. Bigley further testified that each contractor was 
responsible for cleaning up any debris generated by the work it performed. Bigley testified 
that, to his knowledge, ISS had no responsibilities with regard to removing construction 
debris in the loading dock area. Morse supervised the demolition work that had been 
performed on the adjacent wall. Bigley did not recall any complaints about debris or metal 
wiredrods in the area. Nor did he recall receiving any complaints regarding any of the 
subcontractors’ work at the building. 
5 [* 5 ]
David Einstoss testified on behalf of ISS. At the time of the accident Einstoss was 
employed by ISS as a District Manager. Einstoss’ duties consisted of overseeing the 
performance of ISS’s cleaning and maintenance responsibilities at the various buildings 
within the area. ISS was not responsible for removing construction debris from the loading 
dock ramp. According to Einstoss, ISS employed approximately 12 porters at the building 
during the daytime hours in October 1994. Two head porters were assigned to the building, 
and the remainder were standard cleaners. The head cleaners were responsible for 
delegating the work to the cleaners. If ESG had a specific work request for ISS, an ESG 
representative would normally speak to one of the head porters, who in turn would delegate 
the work to the cleaners. However, ESG occasionally gave orders directly to ISS’s porters. 
On or about September 13, 1995, plaintiffs commenced the within action (“Action 
No. 1”) against Chase and ESG alleging common-law negligence and violations of Labor 
Law $0 240( l), 200 and 241. On or about September 30, 1997, plaintiffs commenced a 
separate action (“Action No. 2”) against Morse and defendant Nico General Contractors., 
Inc. (“Nico”) alleging the same causes of action as in Action No. 1. Chase and ESG 
subsequently commenced a third-party action against ISS asserting claims sounding in 
common-law indemnity andor contribution, contractual indemnity, and breach of contract 
for failure to procure insurance. Chase and ESG also asserted cross-claims against Morse 
and Nico seeking common-law indemnity and/or contribution. By order dated October 14, 
1998, Actions Nos. 1 and 2 were consolidated for all purposes. On or about November 22, 
6 [* 6 ]
2000, the plaintiffs filed a note of issue and certificate of readiness certifying that all 
discovery has been completed. These motions ensued. 
Discussion 
In their cross motion, Chase and ESG (collectively “defendants”) seek summary 
judgment dismissing plaintiffs’ complaint and all cross claims insofar as asserted against 
them, or in the alternative, for summary judgment on their claims against ISS and Morse for 
contractual indemnity and brcach of contract for their failure to procure insurancc. In their 
bill of particulars, plaintiffs allege that the defendants are liable for common-law negligence 
and violations of Labor Law $6 240( l), and 241 and 200. 
Labor Law 66 240 and 24 l(6) 
In response to defendants’ cross motion, plaintiffs assert that they no longer intend 
to pursue claims under Labor Law 0 240(1) and 0 241(6) in this action (Fireman 
Affirmation, April 26,2001, at pg. 8, h 1). Accordingly, plaintiffs’ Labor Law $8 240(1) 
and 241(6) claims are hereby dismissed, and that portion of defendants’ cross motion 
seeking to dismiss same will not be addressed herein. 
Labor Law 6 200 and Common-Law Negligence 
Labor Law 0 200 is a codification of the common-law duty of a landowner to provide 
workers with a reasonably safe place to work (see, Lombardi v Stout, 80 NY2d 290,294). 
Such a duty presupposes that the “party charged with that responsibility have the authority 
to control the activity bringing about the injury” (see, Comes v New York State Elec. 62 Gas 
Corp., 82 NY2d 876,877; Russin v Picciano & Son, 54 NY2d 3 1 1,3 17; Retamal v Osborne 
7 [* 7 ]
Mem. Home ASSOC., 256 AD2d 506,507). Thus, liability will be imposed upon an owner 
under Labor Law 0 200 only where the plaintiffs injuries were sustained as the result of a 
dangerous condition at the work site, rather than as the result of the manner in which the 
work was performed, and then only if the owner exercised supervision and control over the 
work performed at the site or had actual or constructive notice of the unsafe condition 
causing the accident (see, Lombardi v Stout, supra, at 294; Allen v Cloutier Constr. Corp., 
44 NY2d 290,299; Surague 1‘ Peckham Mnterials 240 AD2d 392). 
In moving to dismiss plaintiffs’ Labor Law 0 200 and common-law negligence 
causes of action, defendants argue that the condition (exposed wire) that allegedly caused 
plaintiffs injury was “open and obvious” and, therefore, defendants had no duty to protect 
him from such a readily observable condition. Further, defendants contend that they did not 
exercise any control or supervision over plaintiffs work. In addition, defendants argue that 
plaintiffs accident occurred as a result of his own negligence. 
In opposition, the plaintiffs do not dispute that the exposed wire was an “open and 
obvious” condition, or that plaintiff was aware of said condition prior to the incident. 
Rather, plaintiffs argue that the alleged open and obvious nature of the condition is only 
relevant to the issue of plaintiffs comparative negligence, and does not negate the duty of 
defendants to maintain their worksite in a reasonably safe condition. This court disagrees. 
The Appellate Division, Second Department, by which this court is bound to follow, 
has consistently held that liability under Labor Law 0 200 and common-law negligence will 
not attach where the dangerous condition complained of was open and obvious (see, Stasiak 
8 [* 8 ]
v Sears. Roebuck and Co., - AD2d -, 722 NYS2d 25 1; Gonzalez v Fastflex. Inc., 270 
AD2d 229; Rose v A. Servidone. Inc., 268 AD2d 516; Panetta v Paramount 
Communications, 255 AD2d 568, lv denied 93 NY2d 806; Bellofatto v Frengs, 246 AD2d 
566; Wilhouski v Canon U.S.A., 212 AD2d 525), particularly where the plaintiff was 
actually aware of the condition (see, Boiovic v New York Citv Housing Authority, 
-AD2d-, 2001 WL 661221; Tar-raA v 2025 Richmmd Ave. Assocs., 260 AD2d 468). 
Thus, contrary to plaintiffs’ assertion, the general statutory duty imposed by Labor Law 
$200 does not extend to situations where the condition was readily observable (see, 
Gonzalez v Fastflex. Inc., supra, at 229; Rose v A. Servidone. Inc., supra, at 5 17; Panetta 
v Paramount Communications, supra, at 568). 
Applying the foregoing principles to the instant matter, the court finds that the 
exposed wire which allegedly caused plaintiffs injuries was an open and obvious condition 
(see, Panetta v 1”mount Conuiiunications, supra, at 568). The plaintiff, at his examination 
before trial, admitted that for at least two weeks before the accident, he had readily observed 
the exposed wire in the loading dock area. Further, plaintiff admitted that he observed the 
wire immediately before the accident as he was cleaning garbage in the area. In fact, 
plaintiff testified that he was deliberately attempting to clean around the wire just before the 
accident occurred. Under such circumstances, the court concludes, as a matter of law, that 
any danger posed by the exposedprotruding wires was open and obvious to plaintiff. 
Inasmuch as the plaintiffs have failed to present sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue 
9 [* 9 ]
of fact establishing otherwise, that branch of defendants’ cross motion seeking to dismiss 
plaintiffs’ Labor Law $ 200 and common-law negligence claims is granted. 
Since all of the causes of action in the complaint asserted against Chase and ESG are 
dismissed, the third-party action commenced by Chase and ESG against ISS for, inter alia, 
indemnificatiodcontribution must also be dismissed (see, Kim v Herbert Const. Co., 275 
AD2d 709,712; Dilena v Irving Reisman Irrevocable Trust, 263 AD2d 375; Somerville v 
Usdan, 255 AD2d 500). In light ofthe foregoing, ISS’s motion seeking summaryjudgment 
dismissing Chase and ESG’s third-party action is moot. 
Conclusion 
In sum, Chase and ESG’s cross motion is granted to the extent that plaintiffs’ Labor 
Law $$ 240(1), 241(6) 200 and common-law negligence claims and all cross claims are 
hereby dismissed as against Chase and ESG. The motion by ISS seeking summaryjudgment 
dismissing the third-party complaint is denied as moot, and the third-party complaint is 
hereby dismissed as against ISS. The Clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly. 
The foregoing constitutes the decision and order of this court. 
J!!.. J. S. C. 
HON. THEODORE T. JONES 
10 [* 10 ]
