Riebman v Eiselman
2001 NY Slip Op 30011(U)
December 27, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number:
Judge: Marilyn Shafer
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.-against- 
EMILY EISELMAN, STEPHEN R. SENIE, and 
ROSENMAN & COLIN LLP, 
Defendants. 
MARILYN SHAFER, J.: 
In this legal malpractice action arising out of the defendants’’, representation of plaintiff 
in an underlying residential landlordtenant dispute, each of the parties presently seek summary 
judgment relief. At issue is the representation rendered by defendants with respect to the plaintiffs 
tenancy rights, if any, under the New York City Loft Law ( “Loft Law”). 
Plaintiff, Joan Reibman and her then spouse (“Slater”), had occupied in the latter part of 
1990s a previously vacant, by way of eviction, 2000 square foot loft type residential apartment 
under an interim lease issued by the then owner of the Building. Plaintiff and Slater also had a 
contract to purchase the newly combined and renovated Apartment from the Owner. Under the 
Purchase Agreement, ReibmadSlater, as the purchaser, was to pay $107,000, the estimated cost of 
renovating the Apartment, as an offset to the purchase price of the Apartment, and the Owner was 
to pay any cost of the renovation in excess of the $107,000 payment. As part of the arrangements 
with the Owner, the six-year Lease for the Apartment provided that the substantially reduced, below 
market rental rate of $800 per month, was to be escalated to $4,500 per month 60 days after 
completion of the Apartment should ReibmadSlater fail to close on the Apartment. Due to the 
I Captioned co-defendant Emily Eiselman is a former associate of co-defendant 
Rosenman & Colin LLP who left New York in 1994. She has never been served in this action. [* 1 ]
substantial amount of renovation work needed in the Apartment, the couple took temporary 
possession and occupancy of another apartment in the Building pursuant to a similar Owner issued 
interim lease. 96 
Though the couple moved into the Apartment upon substantial completion of the renovation 
and assumed payment of nearly $50,000 in excess renovation expenses, the Purchase Agreement 
never closed. After due demand, they eventually recouped their purchase deposit. While in the 
process of converting the Building to condominium form of ownership and before the offering plan 
was ever declared effective, the Owner filed for protection under Chapter 1 1 of the U.S. Bankruptcy 
Code. Neither the proposed 
condominium offering plan, nor the Lease made any reference to the rights of purchasers, or interim 
lessees, under the Loft Law. Nor did the Lease contain a ‘nondistubance clause’. Rather, the Lease 
was subordinate to existing or future mortgages on the Building. Nevertheless, the couple sought 
to remain in the Apartment until they had amortized, by way of rent reduction, their $50,000 
expenditures in renovating the Apartment which were allegedly to be credited toward the amount 
of rent due under the Lease. A receiver was then judicially appointed for the Building. 
In early 199 1, defendants were initially retained by ReibmadSlater to render advice as to 
the effect of the Owner’s Bankruptcy upon their rights and interests in the Apartment. Later that 
same year, defendants also represented the holder of a wrap-around mortgage on the Building and 
after advising the couple and the Bank about a potential conflict of interest, defendants continued 
its representation of both parties. 
In early 1993, the Receiver commenced proceedings against ReibmadSlater as well as 
various other Building tenants/occupants seeking to either oust them from the Apartment for 
2 [* 2 ]
nonpayment of any rent since his 1992 appointment, or obtain payment of fair market rent of 
$3,800 per month for retroactive and prospective use and occupancy of the Apartment. Successful 
settlement negotiations ensued. Plaintiff and Slater were represented by defendant. Reibman alleges 
that she was uninvolved in these negotiations and that her former husband was for the most part 
primarily involved with defendants’ representation of the couple. Under the resulting So Ordered 
Stipulation of Settlement dated December 17, 1993 * [which is the gravamen of this action], 
ReibmadSlater received a new two-year lease at a monthly rent of $800 per month with an option 
to receive an additional one-year lease at a monthly rental of $824 per month if the Receiver was 
still in control of the Building. They were thereby permitted to reside in the Apartment for a total 
of at least six years wovember 1990 through October 19961, and having paid no rent before 
December 1993 and paying only a significantly below market rent for three years thereafter, 
amortize the Excess expenses of renovating the Apartment. However, ReibmadSlater waived their 
statutory status as a tenant entitled to protection under the Loft Law and they agreed not to assert 
any claims of tenancy and occupancy rights against the Receiver. 9u 
This waiver of any rights under the Loft Law while the property was under the control of the 
Receiver was upheld by Justice David Saxe in a Decision dated October 14, 1997 (Index #: 
202 15/92). 
The existence of potential tenancy rights with respect to the Apartment had been previously 
raised by and between Slater and defendants within the context of defendants’ representation. 
Defendants had advised Slater that while there might be “statutory” defenses for a foreclosure or 
eviction proceeding, there was a problem in that the Apartment “had been vacant.” Allegedly, 
At about the same time, Reibman and Slater separated as a couple. [* 3 ]
Slater was further advised that if they wanted to explore the possibility of Loft Law status they 
should consider retaining another atgmey. Plaintiff and Slater thereafter provided defendants with 
pertinent information regarding other tenants in the Building who Slater believed had “a more solid 
legal claim to occupancy.” Defendants’ representation continued only until execution of the 
Receiver’s Settlement. 
In June of 1996, Plaintiff filed a Loft Law application as against the Receiver with respect 
to the Apartment. That application, however, was eventually dismissed, pursuant to the Order of 
NYS Supreme Court Justice David Saxe, dated October 14, 1997, as barred by the waiver set forth 
in the Receiver’s Settlement. Later that same summer, the Receiver gave Plaintiff another two-year 
lease at a significantly below market rental rate of $873 per month. 
The Mortgagee sold its mortgage, and the mortgage purchaser’s successor in interest 
subsequently purchased the Building at a foreclosure sale. The January 1998 foreclosure sale 
conveyance documents specifically recited the assignment of the Waiver of Plaintiffs 
tenancy/occupancy rights contained in the Receiver Settlement. Shortly thereafter, the new owner 
brought an action in ejectment against the Plaintiff predicated upon the grounds that they had 
contractually waived any statutory interestdrights in the Apartment. However, in response, the 
plaintiff successhlly argued that the waiver only constituted a “waiver of [their] rights to seek 
coverage rights under the Loft Law while theproperty is under the control of the Receiver [emphasis 
added] ” - - - a situation which ended in early1998 when the Building was sold at foreclosure - - - 
and that the Receiver’s Lease issued in 1996 remains in full force and effect as having been 
judicially deemed (Order of NYS Supreme Court Justice Saxe, Supra.) an authorized and valid 
exercise of the Receiver’s authority. As such, the Receiver’s Settlement did not preclude the 
4 [* 4 ]
plaintiff from asserting her Loft Law claims after the Receiver no longer controlled the Building. 
Some six months after the Building was soldtransferred at foreclosure in early 1998, 
Plaintiff filed a renewed Loft Board application for protected tenancy/occupancy status under the 
Loft Law and applicable provisions of the Loft Board’s regulations (see, 29 RCNY 2-09[b][3][i]). 
Specifically, she sought coverage “as a residential occupant [who] took possession of a residential 
unit [the Apartment] covered as part of an IMD [‘interim multiple dwelling’], on or after June 2 1 , 
1982, . . . [who is] a prime lessee with a lease currently in effect . . .,, (Ibid.). However, on the eve 
of the scheduled application hearing, the plaintiff, then represented by other legal counsel, entered 
into a settlement agreement with the New Owner of the Building whereby: (i) each withdrew their 
respective claims with prejudice, (ii) the plaintiff was permitted to remain in the Apartment through 
April of 1999 without paying any rent beyond that paid through October of 1998, and (iii) the 
plaintiff received a payment of $120,000 for vacating the Apartment and surrendering all right, title 
and interest in the improvements made to the Apartment. Upon expiration of the agreed upon 
tenancy/occupancy term, the Plaintiff surrendered the Tribecca apartment which by then had an 
estimated fair market purchase price in excess of $1.25 million and estimated fair market rental rate 
in excess of $4,000 per month. ?& 
Plaintiff has since commenced this action predicated upon claims against Defendants for 
legal malpractice, breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty arising from their representation 
of her and Slater in connection with the Apartment. In essence, she complains that Defendants 
wrongfully: (i) failed to adequately research, and correctly advise them as to, any Loft Law 
tenancy/occupancy rightdinterests they may have had with respect to the Apartment; and (ii) 
negotiated and approved the Receiver’s Settlement containing, the waiver of any of those 
5 [* 5 ]
rightshnterests. Plaintiff claims that her legal rightdinterests with respect to her tenancy/occupancy 
of the Apartment under the Loft Law “were far superior before the Stipulation was entered into 
than they were afterward. Plaintiff argues that she unwittingly lost the right to (i) remain in the 
Apartment at a significantly below market base rent rate of some $800 per month subject to statutory 
increases, as well as (ii) sell her Loft Law interestshights . She further complains that she did not, 
and would not have, authorized the waiver provision of Receiver’s Settlement if defendants had 
adequately and correctly advised her of her Law Loft rights. In response, defendants have 
interposed an answer denying all material allegations of the complaint and asserting various 
affirmative defenses. Disclosure has proceeded, and the parties’ respective summary judgment 
motion and cross motion ensued. % 
Summary judgment relief will only be granted if there are no material and triable issues of 
fact (Sillman v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp., 3 NY2d 395,404 [ 19571). Once the movant 
has made a prima facie showing of such entitlement, the burden shifts to the opposing party to 
produce evidentiary proof in admissible form sufficient to establish the existence of material fact 
which require a trial of the action (Alvarez v. Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320,324 [ 19861). Thus, it 
is imperative that a party opposing such relief ‘assemble, lay bare and reveal his proofs, in order to 
show that the matters set up in his [pleadings] are real and capable ofbeing established upon a trial’ 
(DiSabato v. S’es, 9 AD2d 297, 300 [2nd Dept. 19591) However, ‘only a bona fide issue raised by 
evidentiary facts and not one based on conclusory or irrelevant allegations will suffice to defeat 
summary judgment’ (Rotuba Extruders v. Ceppos, 46 NY2d 223, 231 [1978]), and mere 
conclusions, expressions of hope or unsubstantiated allegations or assertions are insufficient 
(Weingrad v. New York University Medical Center, 64 NY2d 85 1 [ 19851; Zitckerman v. City ofNew 
6 [* 6 ]
York, 49 NY2d 557 [ 19801). 
To prevail in an action for le a1 malpractice, the plaintiffmust demonstrate: (1) the existence 
of a duty, (2) a beach ofthat duty, (3) that the claimant would have been successful in the underlying 
matter had the attorney exercised due care, and (4) that the actual damages were proximately caused 
by the breach of the duty (Plentino Realty Ltd. v. Gitomer, 2 16 AD2d 87,89 [ 1'' Dept. 19951; Barry 
v. O'Connor, Finkelstein & Robinson, 98 F3d 36 [2d Cir. 19961, . . .settlement of a claim at a 
significantly depreciated value . . .). As to the breach of duty element, a plaintiff "must. . . establish 
that the attorney failed to exercise that degree of care, skill and diligence commonly possessed and $i 
exercised by a member of the legal community" (Estate of Nevelson v. Carro Spanbock Kaster & 
CU~O, 259 AD2d 282, 283 [lst Dept. 19991) with recognition that attorneys "are entitled to 
significant discretion in determining which positions to advance on behalf of their clients, and in 
determining how best to advance those positions" (DaSilva v. Suozzi English, Cianciulli, Peirez, 
P.C.,233 AD2d 172,176 [l"Dept. 19961; Rodriguezv. Frederick, 213 AD2d 176 [l"Dept. 19951). 
The 'but for' proximate cause element is not sufficiently set forth, where a plaintiff belatedly 
manifest unhappiness with an allegedly improvident settlement and contends that but for the 
attorney's negligence a claim could have been successful (Levie v. Lacher & Lovell-Taylor, 256 
AD2d 147,149 [l"Dept. 19981;Kaufntan & Kaufman v. Hofl, 213 AD2d 197,198 [l"Dept. 19951). 
The court takes judicial notice of the fact that any real estate attorney practicing in the City 
of New York in the early 1990's who represented a tenant/occupant with a loft type apartment in a 
known loft area of the city such as Tribecca, should have recognized that the Loft Law could be 
applicable. Hence, such an attorney would have an obligation to either (i) ascertain the significance 
and possible application of the law and advise his client accordingly, or (ii) advise his client to seek 
7 [* 7 ]
legal representation elsewhere with respect to that issue. 
While claiming that their reuesentation of plaintiff and her former husband was limited in 
nature [maintain status quo of contractual rental terms and conditions] and did not encompass 
tenancy rights with respect to Loft Law matters, Legal Counsel, nevertheless, (i) sent 
correspondence to the Owner containing form letter language stating that it represented the couple 
with respect to “all rights . . . arising at law, in equity or by statute.”; (ii) exchanged references to 
that issue with the plaintiff by way of her former spouse; and (iii) counseled the couple to enter into 
the Waiver provision of the Receiver’s Settlement. Defendants claim that it was not important for 
plaintiff and her husband to be aware of their status, if any, as a tenantloccupant protected under 
the Loft Law because they were satisfied with the terms and conditions of the Receiver’s Settlement 
which, otherwise, maintained the terms and conditions of their contractual tenancy. 
To be covered by the Loft Law, a building must satisfy the statutory definition of an ‘‘interim 
- multiple dwelling” [emphasis added] (MDL $28 1 [ 13). In this case, the Building was repeatedly and 
without challenge registered by its former owners as a statutory interim multiple dwelling, albeit 
inconsistently. In pertinent part, the then applicable provisions of the Loft Board regulations 
provide: 
(3) When a residential occupant took possession of a 
residential unit covered as part of an IMD, on or after 
June 2 1 , 1982 . . , such occupant shall be qualified for 
protection of Article 7-C if: 
(i) he/she is a mime lessee with a lease currentlv in effect, 
or, . . .[Emphasis Added] 
(29 RCNY 9 2-09 [b][3]). “[Tlhe term prime lessee shall mean the party with whom the landlord 
entered into a lease or rental agreement for the use and occupancy of a portion of an IMD, which 
8 [* 8 ]
is being used residentially, regardless of whether such lessee is currently in occupancy . . . ” (29 
RCNY 0 2-09 [a]). 
% 
The Loft Board has recognized only the following four methods by which a unit determined 
to be covered or voluntarily registered as a covered unit may be deregulated: (i) sales of 
improvements (29 RCNY 5 2-07); (ii) sales of rights (29 RCNY 3 2- 10); (iii) Loft Board finding of 
abandonment (29 RCNY 9 2-1OCfl); and (iv) a recorded irrevocable covenant to use the premises 
for a non-residential purpose following the eviction of a covered tenant (29 RCNY 0 2-08c][2]). 
Defendants contend that the Apartment was exempt from Loft Law coverage in that the 
former owner purchased the improvements and the rights ofthe previous occupant ofthe Apartment. 
However, the statutorily mandated “Sales Records” which would have substantiated such a claim 
were never filed with the Loft Board (29 RCNY $0 2-07 and 2-10). 
Defendants further contends that the plaintiff did not occupy a regulated unit because the 
original covered units no longer existed by the time the plaintiff entered into the lease with the 
Owner for the Apartment. The Loft Board, however, has no regulation permitting the deregulation 
of covered units by rearranging demising partitions, and has never recognized such a method of 
deregulating otherwise regulated loft units. 
Lastly, defendants claim that inasmuch as the plaintiff entered into their Lease as an 
accommodation to further the underlying primary intention of both the Owner and the plaintiff to 
transfer ownership of the Apartment [the Purchase Agreement], the plaintiff should not be 
considered a “prime lessee” within the meaning of the Loft Law. Plaintiff initially moved into the 
Apartment as a prospective purchaser of a newly created condominium loft apartment. However, 
defendants have failed to set forth any authority upon which such a distinction has been made and 
9 [* 9 ]
recognized as dispositive. 
Upon review of the record - - - including, but not limited to the parties' respectively 
submitted testimonial and documentary material - - - and the foregoing applicable principles of law, 
it is apparent to this court that the plaintiff could have obtained protected tenancy/occupancy status 
under the Loft Law with respect to the Apartment had such rightdinterests been properly pursued 
before the appropriate administrative agency. However, there exists material triable issues of fact 
with respect to the nature and extent of (i) the representation rendered by defendants on behalf of 
plaintiff and her former husband in connection with the Apartment; (ii)the discussions between the 
parties and Slater as to ReibmadSlater's goals in the litigation and (iii)the plaintiff and Slater's 
knowledge, or obligation to seek knowledge, of potential Loft Law issues with respect to the 
Apartment. Such factual issues cannot be resolved upon the papers presently before the court and 
require a plenary trial for proper disposition. The function of the court is issue finding, not issue 
determination (Sillman v. Twentieth Century Fox-Film Corp, Supra.). T& 
However, where, as here, (i) an asserted contract claim against a professional does not rest 
upon a promise of a particular result, and only claims a breach of general professional standards 
(Senise v. Mackasek, 227 AD2d 184, 185 [ 1'' Dept. 19961; Goldberg v. Moskowitz, 262 AD2d 56, 
57 [ 1'' Dept. 19991); and (ii) a purported claim for breach of fiduciary duty obligations is predicated 
upon the same allegations as the negligence claim (DiPlacidi v. Walsch, 243 AD2d 335 [ 1'' Dept. 
1997]), each of these claims must be viewed as a dismissible redundant pleading of a malpractice 
claim. 
Furthermore, where, as here, a claimant has failed to establish that she would have prevailed 
in the underlying dispute but for the complained of attorney's allegedly undisclosed conflict of 
10 [* 10 ]
interest, summary judgment dismissal is warranted (Unger v. Paul Weiss Rzfkind Wharton & 
Garrison, 265 AD2d 156 [ 1"Dept. 19991). Though not set forth in the complaint, such a claim has 
been proposed within the context of the subsequent summary judgment submissions. %s 
Accordingly, the parties's respective applications for summary judgment relief are granted 
solely to the extent of dismissing in all respects plaintiffs breach of contract and breach of fiduciary 
duty claims as redundant of her legal malpractice cause of action; and denied in all other respects. 
This shall constitute the decision and order of the court. 
Dated: December ~1 ,2001 
I 
.~ 5.c. 
,/ 
11 [* 11 ]
