Pantelidis v New York City Bd. of Standards and
Appeals
2001 NY Slip Op 30061(U)
December 26, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 110531/01
Judge: Martin Shulman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.Petitioner, 
: Index No. 
110531/01 
For a Judgement pursuant to Article 78 of the CPLR, 
-against - DECISION and ORDER 
NEW YORK CITY BOARD OF STANDARDS AND 
APPEALS and NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF : 
BUILDINGS, 
Respondents, 
and 
JOSEPH AND ROSA SHEEHAN, 
Pursuant to Article 78 of the CPLR, the Petitioner, George Pantelidis 
(“petitioner” or “Pantelidis”), moved by order to show cause 
 (“OSC”) for an order 
“...reviewing, annulling[ ]and setting aside a final order (known as a 
‘R]esolution’ 
 [)I of 
the New York City Board of Standards and Appeals ...[ “BSA”], BSA Calendar # 31-01A 
adopted April 27, 2001, on the grounds that the decision was made pursuant to error of 
law, ... in violation of lawful procedure, was arbitrary and capricious[ 3 and ... in violation 
of the Zoning Regulations and State and Constitutional Law ...” ( Verified Petition at 
7 1 
as OSC Exh. C ). Petitioner initially sought and obtained a temporary restraining order 
(“TRO”) to enjoin the N.Y.C. Department of 
Buildjngs (“DOB) and BSA’ (collectively 
- 
The BSA “...[is] a five-member body that includes at least one planner, a licensed 
professional engineer and a registered architect, ....[ and] is vested with exclusive jurisdiction to 
determine appeals from DOB decisions (NY City Charter 
 §659[a],[b]; 
 5 666 [6][a]) ...” In the 1 [* 1 ]
“respondents”) from: (a) enforcing the Resolution; (b) issuing any violation orders 
against Pantelidis for non-compliance with the Resolution; and (c) revoking the DOB 
permit which previously allowed Pantelidis to add a glass enclosed exterior stairwell to 
the rear of the building. Pursuant to a signed stipulation (OSC Exh. A), the respondents 
consented to the issuance of the TRO pending the hearing of this Article 78 petition and 
an agreed upon briefing schedule. 
Shortly thereafter, Joseph and Rosa Sheehan (the “Sheehans” ) moved by order 
to show cause 
 (“OSC-2”) for an order granting them leave to intervene as additional 
respondents in this Article 78 proceeding, transferring this case to the Hon. Sheila 
Abdus -Salaam, J.S.C., as a related case, vacating the stay of enforcement of the 
Resolution or, alternatively, requiring the petitioner to post an undertaking and 
accelerating the return date of petitioner’s OSC from July 25, 2001 to an earlier date. 
The parties appeared in court on June 15,2001 and this Court heard arguments 
in support of, and in opposition to, a continued stay to enjoin the enforcement of the 
Resolution pending the hearing and determination of the respective orders to show 
cause. This Court continued the stay pending the determination of this Article 78 
petition and issued verbal bench directives granting the branch of Sheehan’s OSC -2 
for leave to intervene (see, discussion, infra) but declining to transfer this proceeding to 
Justice Abdul -Salaam as a related case. This Court generally took no position as to the 
parties’ respective briefing and submission schedules for the filing of additional replies, 
sur-replies, if any, and correlating memoranda of law. Both the OSC and OSC -2 are 
Matter of Beekman Hill Association, Inc. et al., v. Chin, et al., 274 A.D.2d 161 , 165, 712 
N.Y.S.2d 471, 473 (1 
st Dept., 2000). 
-2- [* 2 ]
consolidated herein for disposition. 
Backqround of the Administrative Proceedinqs Below 
Pantelidis owns a multiple dwelling and land located at 116 East 
 73‘d Street, 
New York, New York ( “property” or 
“building”). He occupies the first floor and the rear 
of the second floor of the building as his personal residence. The Sheehans are 
neighboring property owners of a townhouse located 114 East 73“ Street, New York, 
New York ( “adjoining [adj.] property” or “adj. building”) and share a party wall with the 
petitioner. In or about December 1998, Pantelidis applied to the DOB for a building 
permit to construct a greenhouse2 (the “glass extension” or “exterior stairwell ” ) at the 
rear of his property. Particularly, petitioner requested: 
...[ 
Bluilding 
 [Dlepartment approval and of the removal of the 
existing outer court and replace same with two-story 
greenhouse type construction. 
The greenhouse will cover only the area of the 
existing inner court and will fall within the permitted FAR and 
open space ratio, but will fall within the 30’ rear yard. The 
greenhouse will be set back I’ 6” from the face of the rear 
building line. The greenhouse will be constructed of extruded 
metal mullions and double thermal glass. The lot line glass 
will be protected by tempered glass with sprinklers at 6’ 0” 
intervals. (OSC Exh. E). 
The petitioner began constructing the glass extension in January 1999. The base of the 
Right at the outset, petitioner acknowledged that he had no intention of constructing a 
greenhouse, but rather an “ ... extension behind ...[ his] building, with private stairs leading from 
the first floor to the second floor ...” (Pantelidis Aff. at 
7 3) Prior to completing the construction in 
issue, petitioner and/or members of his family had to use the public stairwell in the building to 
access portions of his personal residence. The petitioner further explained that “ ...[ tlhis 
extension was originally called a ‘greenhouse’ because it was made of glass and would house 
plants, [but] admitted[ I... the extension does not fit the technical requirements of a 
‘greenhouse’. . .”( Pantelidis Aff. at q4). 
-3- [* 3 ]
exterior framework of the exterior stairwell started above grade, Le., above the first 
story or basement level of the building. In June of that year, the Sheehans filed a 
complaint with the DOB (OSC Exh. D) essentially questioning the near completed 
construction of the greenhouse and deck as not being in compliance with certain zoning 
regulation requirements and otherwise depriving certain rent regulated tenants, who 
occupy the rear basement studio apartment within the building, of adequate light and 
air. Pantelidis subsequently met with the DOB Manhattan Borough Commissioner 
(Pantelidis Aff. at 75) and on June 25, 1999, Borough Commissioner Livian issued his 
hand -written determination of approval; to wit: “Ok[ay] to accept 2 story greenhouse. the 
Greenhouse is projecting 6’ 0” into required rear yard. The 2 story greenhouse reduces 
degree of non-complying outer court.” (see, OSC Exh. E, supra). The glass extension 
was completed in August 1999 at a cost of $1 50,000.00. (Pantelidis Aff. at 77). At the 
request of the Sheehans, the Borough Commissioner updated DOB’s prior approval of 
the permit for the now completed exterior stairwell on December 28, 2000, without 
making any changes to his decision. (See, hand -written notation at the lower left-hand 
portion of this document as OSC Exh. E, 
s~pra)~. 
On January 24, 2001 , and within 30 days of the date of issuance of the DOB’s 
updated decision, the Sheehans filed their appeal with the BSA, inter alia, challenging 
the DOB’s permit which approved the construction of the two story glass extension in 
By letter dated March 16, 2001 , the former Borough Commissioner clarified his initial 
June 25, 1999 determination (and updated without any changes on December 28,2000) and 
advised the Petitioner that “ ... [tlhe proposed two-story greenhouse is acceptable for approval 
because it eliminates the non-complying outer court and reduces the non-complying open area 
along the side lot line.” (OSC Exh. I). 
-4- [* 4 ]
the rear of the building as being contrary to the applicable Zoning 
 Resolution(s) and 
which allowed, and continues to allow, this exterior stairwell to negatively impact on the 
Sheehans’ quality of life as owners of the adj. building and adj. property. Both the 
petitioner and the DOB filed opposition papers and urged the BSA to sustain the DOB’s 
determination. 
Among the findings contained in its Resolution issued April 27, 2001 (see, OSC 
Exh. J), the BSA ruled that the: 
... DOB approval now permits the western portion of the rear 
yard to be violated, which increases the degree of non- 
compliance in the rear yard; ...[ that] approximately 26 square 
feet of the required rear yard that were previously 
unencumbered now contains portions of the building in the 
first and second floors; [that although] the western side yard 
at the rear of the ... building was only six feet from the side lot 
line to the building wall[, nonetheless,] the approved 
enlargement is primarily in that six foot wide space, taking 
the building wall to the side lot line; [that] the Zoning 
Resolution [“ZR”] does not allow for the decrease in one 
non-complying condition to offset a new or increased 
non-compliance relating to another regulation; [that the 
ZR] allows for an accessory non -commercial 
greenhouse to be located in required rear yards as 
permitted obstructions, [however, the petitioner’s] 
“greenhouse” is built above the first story (the 
basement) and contains two stories, one on the first 
floor and one on the second floor, ... rises a full three 
floors above grade reaching a height of 30’, well in 
excess of the 14‘ maximum ...[ and does not] resemble[ ] 
the plain and obvious meaning of a greenhouse4; [that] 
the ... structure more closely resembles a 
glassed- 
enclosed extension to the building as an enclosed 
stairwell; [and that] the ...[ DOB] acknowledges that the 
[extension] does not meet the definition of a 
The Resolution describes a greenhouse as being a “....glass enclosure used for 4 
cultivating plants with operable windows ... whose free openable area is equal to at least five 
percent of the combined floor area of the greenhouse.” 
-5- [* 5 ]
“greenhouse” ...( Bracketed matter and emphasis added). 
Based on the foregoing and other recited factors, the BSA granted the Sheehans’ 
appeal and reversed the 
DO6 Borough Commissioner’s December 28,2001 updated 
determination of approval of 
AH Application No. 102232344. It is also apparent that the 
Resolution implicitly requires Pantelidis to tear down the glass extension and restore 
the rear of his building and property to its original condition. 
The Petitioner’s Article 78 Appeal 
The petitioner raises a number of grounds to set aside the BSA’s Resolution: (1) 
the BSA should not have ruled on the Sheehans’ appeal as same was time barred 
because said appeal was filed on January 24,2001, more than 30 days5 after the 
DOB’s final determination granted the building permit for the construction work dated 
June 25, 1999; (2) Petitioner constructed a fire-safe exterior stairwell ( see, Exh. G 
Pantelidis’ affidavit in opposition [“Opp. Aff.”]) at the rear of his building in an “outer to 
Put differently, the petitioner contends that the BSA erred in failing to follow its own 
Rules of Practice and Procedure 
 § 1-07 (b) which requires an appeal application to be filed 
within 30 days after a final determination of a Borough Commissioner of the DOB. Here, the 
final approval purportedly occurred on June 25, 1999, yet, petitioner claims the Sheehans were 
apparently allowed to file their appeal application more than 1 ‘/z years later relying on the 
December 29,2000 “updated” DOB determination issued at the latter’s request. To counter the 
respondents’ claim that this issue was not properly raised below (see, decision, infra), petitioner 
for the first time proffers a reply affidavit from petitioner’s counsel before the BSA, and a noted 
land use expert, who implicitly concedes raising this timeliness argument for the first time on 
April 27, 2001, well after the BSA record was “closed” and just before the BSA Chairperson was 
about to issue the ruling granting the Sheehans’ appeal. See, Lobel Reply Aff. at 72. 
Exhibit G contains an unsworn architect’s letter. Conspicuously missing from this letter 
is an affirmative statement to the effect that this architect personally inspected the building and 
property and visually verified petitioner’s purported compliance with the proposed fire safety 
measures (e.g., installed sprinkler systems, a party fire wall of cement with specified 
dimensions, etc.). 
-6- [* 6 ]
court "and not a "rear yard" and, therefore, he was not required to comply with the 
ZR's 30' depth requirement; (3) assuming, arguendo, this exterior stairwell was built on 
a rear yard, nonetheless, Pantelidis could not have increased the degree of non- 
compliance with this 30' depth requirement because the existing rear of the building, 
even without the glass extension, left a rear yard depth of 24' 2'' ; (4) the glass 
extension onlover the open space to the side of the earlier built 14' extension 
(otherwise legal) and abutting the side lot line seemingly made that area more 
compliant with the relevant ZR which otherwise disallows side yards and/or such open 
spaces less than 8' wide; (5) the petitioner was deprived of due process because he 
was not afforded the opportunity to respond to documentation the Sheehans submitted 
to the BSA 1 day prior to the hearing date; and (6) the DOB should be equitably 
estopped from revoking the permit because the petitioner, now apparently to his 
detriment, had completed the construction of the glass extension relying on this City 
agency's approval . 
The BSA's and DOB's Joint Response 
Essentially, the respondents supported the Sheehans' application to join as 
intervenor -respondents largely because the latter specifically undertook the BSA appeal 
challenging the DOB's June 25, 1999 permit (as updated on December 28,2000) 
approving the petitioner's construction of the glass extension. However, the 
' Before 1961, prior owners built a 14' extension (a legally non-compliant structure) to 
the rear of the building on the easterly side of the property. which reduced the depth of the rear 
yard to 24' 2". This extension apparently created an open area on the westerly portion of the 
property between the extension side wall and side lot line measuring a little over 6'. Petitioner 
describes this open space as an outer court which is not subject to any 30' depth requirements. 
-7- [* 7 ]
respondents took no position as to the Sheehans’ other claims against Pantelidis. In a 
supporting memorandum of law 
 8, the Assistant Corporation Counsel, representing 
respondents, categorically rejected the petitioner‘s claim that the Sheehan’s BSA 
appeal was untimely. Significantly, in its March 20, 2001 submission to the BSA 
opposing the appeal challenging the DOB’s approval for the construction of the glass 
extension, the DOB’s Asst. General Counsel, Mona Sehgal, Esq., expressly noted that 
“...[o]n December 28, 2000, then-Borough Commissioner Livian updated his approval 
without any changes to it for the purpose of enabling appellants [the Sheehans] to file 
the instant appeal.” (R. 130). Respondents further argue that petitioner neither 
affirmatively raised the timeliness issue in its submissions before the BSA ( R. 121, 
122-127 ) nor raised this issue on the record during the March 27, 2001 hearing 
addressing the merits of the appeal ( R. 154-1 78). Respondents claim petitioner 
effectively waived the timeliness argument not expressly raised before the BSA and, 
therefore, said issue is not preserved for judicial review. 
Respondents’ counsel essentially “walked” the court through the applicable ZR’s 
making the following references to the findings contained in the Resolution (R.1-2). 
The property in located in an R8 zoning district which requires a rear yard with a 30’ 
depth. Although petitioner’s property had a pre-I 961 constructed 14‘ extension at the 
rear of the building which reduced the depth of the rear yard to 24’ 2“, nonetheless, the 
* In addition to the memorandum of law, the respondents submitted a printed Record of 
the Proceedings before the BSA containing the documentary submissions of the petitioner, the 
Sheehans and the DOB as well as the BSA hearing transcripts. This decision will denominate 
the occasional reference to this printed Record with an “R. ” followed by the relevant page 
number. 
-8- [* 8 ]
BSA found this legal non-complying enlargement into the rear yard not to be an issue. 
The gravamen of the BSA rulings rests on ZR 954-31 which “...allows for 
enlargements ... of non-complying buildings only if such enlargement ... does not 
increase the degree of the non-compliance of the building or structure.” The BSA 
concluded that the exterior stairwell unlawfully increased the non-compliance of the rear 
yard 30’ depth requirement, viz., “...approximately 26 square feet of required rear yard 
that were previously unencumbered now contains portions of the building in the first and 
second floors...”. The BSA disagreed with the DOB’s interpretation of the factual 
circumstances and found that even if the glass extension arguably eliminated a non- 
complying outer court, nevertheless, the ZR does not permit a decrease in one non- 
complying condition to offset an increased non-compliance involving another ZR (;.e., a 
rear yard with a 30‘ depth). Against this non-complying backdrop, the BSA clearly 
rejected the notion that the exterior stairwell was an accessory non-commercial 
greenhouseg. Finally, the respondents contend that Pantelidis cannot invoke the 
estoppel doctrine against a municipality to preclude the BSA from enforcing zoning laws 
even if, arguendo, the DOB mistakenly issued the June 25, 1999 permit approving the 
construction of the glass extension and even when same has been entirely completed. 
The Sheehans’ Response and Requested Relief 
The Sheehans’ request for leave to intervene has been granted ( see, 
discussion, infra) and it is unnecessary to restate the varied grounds supporting their 
Citing to ZR 
§23-44(b), the BSA, infer alia, noted that the glass extension reached 30’ 
in height, in excess of the maximum 14’ ceiling requirement, physically did not resemble a 
glasshouse and, as constructed, does not meet the ZR’s definition of a “greenhouse”. 
-9- [* 9 ]
need for intervention as of right. 
The following can be gleaned from the Sheehans’ varied papers in support of 
their OSC -2: (1) the glass extension, several stories in height, was built less than 2” 
from the lot line of the adj. property and has a fire resistance rating of zero ( the exterior 
stairwell will be unable to prevent fire and heat from spreading to the Sheehans’ 
townhouse‘0); (2) the DO6 approval for the construction was purportedly grounded on 
Pantelidis’ misrepresentation that a real greenhouse was going to be built; (3) instead, 
petitioner, improperly built a private, exterior stairwell to allow persons to walk between 
the first and second floors to petitioner’s personal residence without using the public 
stairwell; (4) the Sheehans are prosecuting a separate, but related, claim against 
Pantelidis seeking injunctive relief and money damages emanating from petitioner’s 
purported illegal alterations of his heating and chimney flue systems, damage to the 
party wall and the “illegal” construction of the glass extension”; (5) parenthetically, 
when the petitioner’s counsel filed a request for judicial intervention in this Article 78 
proceeding, he conveniently neglected to mention the pendency of the Sheehan’s 
private action against Pantelidis; (6) Petitioner failed to satisfy the three -pronged 
requirements for injunctive relief warranting the vacatur of the stay or, alternatively, his 
posting of a sufficient undertaking if the stay is continued; (7) the petitioner’s claim that 
lo See, Engineer Weinberg’s affidavit at 
77 14-16, as Exh. B to Weiner Opp. Aff. 
l1 In the Sheehans’ private action captioned, Joseph E. Sheehan and Rosa M. Sheehan 
v. Georse Pantelidis, Index No.: 
 112555/00, petitioner brought his own third-party action against 
the general contractors who purportedly built the exterior stairwell captioned Georse Pantelidis 
v. Creative Livins Enclosures, et ai., Index No.: 015901 12/01. This action for injunctive relief 
and money damages is still pending. 
-1 0- [* 10 ]
the Sheehans’ appeal was untimely was not raised before the BSA, is waived and is not 
preserved for judicial review; (8) the petitioner belatedly proffers a meritless argument 
that the DOB lacked the authority to “update” a permit as this right purportedly belongs 
only to an owner of property ostensibly benefitting from the updated permit, yet, this 
argument must fail as it was also not raised in the proceeding before the BSA and 
never timely challenged in an Article 78 proceeding ( 4 month statute of 
limitations)‘*; 
(9) the Sheehans fully support the extensive findings and conclusions set forth in the 
BSA’s Resolution, namely, the BSA properly interpreted the applicable, albeit complex, 
ZR’s and correctly determined that the glass extension increased the degree of non- 
compliance with the rear yard’s 30’ depth requirement and in building a structure that 
was clearly not a greenhouse; and (10) case law clearly compels the petitioner to 
remove the exterior stairwell (built under color of DOB approval) even if it was 
completed well in advance of the BSA ruling rendering it illegal. 
Discussion 
As an adjoining property owner affected by the actions of the petitioner as well 
as the appellant before the BSA below, the Sheehans properly moved to intervene 
(CPLR 
 §§lo1 3 and 
7802[d]) and join the respondents in opposing Pantelidis’ Article 78 
petition. It is obvious that the Sheehans have “ ... a ‘direct and substantial interest’ in 
the outcome of this litigation ... and petitioner[ ]...[has] not demonstrated that ...[ his] 
l2 As a matter of administrative custom and practice, the DOB commonly issues 
“updates” “...at the request of adjoining property owners and neighborhood associations ... so 
that the interested party can bring an administrative appeal challenging the issuance of the 
permit. The practice of the BSA is to treat the ‘update’, not the initial issuance, as the ‘final 
determination’ under review.” Hornstein Opp. Aff. at 75, see also, sur-reply affidavit of BSA’s 
General Counsel at 74. 
-1 1- [* 11 ]
intervention would substantially prejudice ...[ Pantelidis ] or cause delay ...” (bracketed 
matter added). See, Matter of Rent Stabilization Association of New York. et al., v. New 
York State Division of Housinq and Communitv Renewal, et al., 252 A.D.2d 11 1, 11 6 
(3rd Dept., 1998). As noted, supra, the branch of intervenor -respondents’ OSC -2 for 
leave to intervene had been granted. At this juncture, it is noted that the Sheehans are 
not seeking an order to compel the deconstruction of the exterior stairwell, but to lend 
support to the respondents’ opposition to the instant petition. Given the Sheehans’ 
potential remedies for various injunctive relief and monetary damages in their private 
action against the petitioner (see, Footnote 11, supra), this Court has concluded that it 
was unnecessary to issue an earlier order directing an undertaking to continue the stay 
pending the determination of this Article 78 appeal and, therefore, denied that branch 
of the OSC-2 for that relief. 
The standard of review in an article 78 proceeding is whether an administrative 
agency’s determination was arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion, was made in 
violation of a lawful procedure and/or was affected by an error of law. (CPLR 
§7803[3]). In the context of addressing the BSA’s interpretation of the applicable ZR’s, 
this Court must also consider the well settled rule: 
... that local zoning boards have wide discretion ... and the 
judicial function in reviewing a zoning board’s determination 
is limited (see, Matter of Fuhst v Foley, 45 NY2d 441,444; 
Matter of Cowan v Kern, 41 NY2d 591, 598). “A zoning 
board determination should not be set aside unless there is 
a showing of illegality, arbitrariness or abuse of discretion. 
( Conley v Town of Brookhaven Zoning Bd. of Appeals, 40 
NY2d 309.) That is to say, the determination of [the zoning 
board] will be sustained if it has a rational basis and is 
supported by substantial evidence [citations omitted]” 
( Matter of Fuhst v Foley, supra, at 444). The board’s 
-1 2- [* 12 ]
determination is entitled to substantial judicial deference 
(see, Matter of Bella Vista Apt. Co. v Bennett, 89 NY2d 465, 
471) and, even where a contrary determination would be 
reasonable and sustainable, a reviewing court may not 
substitute its judgment for that of the agency if the 
determination is supported by substantial evidence (see, 
Matter of Consolidated Edison Co. v New York State Div. of 
Human Rights, 77 NY2d 41 1 , 417). Substantial evidence 
has been defined as "such relevant proof as a reasonable 
mind may accept as adequate to support a conclusion or 
ultimate fact" (300 
 Gramatan Ave. Assocs. v State Div. of 
Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 180). 
In the Matter of 
Soh0 Alliance v. N.Y.C. Board of Standard and 
Armeals, 264 A.D.2d 
59, 63, 703 N.Y.S.2d 150, 154 
(Ist Dept., 
 2OOO)I3. 
Under the circumstances here, contrary to Pantelidis' assertions, petitioner may 
not raise the issue of the timeliness of the Sheehans' BSA appeal for the first time in 
this Article 78 proceeding . Preliminarily, this Court finds the petitioner's tactical 
decision to assert this claim after the BSA record was closed and seconds before the 
BSA was to announce its ruling was a creative, albeit unsuccessful, effort to raise a 
non-existent timeliness issue. As noted, supra, petitioner had retained highly 
experienced and effective counsel to defend its interests in sustaining the June 25, 
1999 decision (as updated on December 28, 2000) approving the permit for the 
"greenhouse ". There was ample opportunity to assert a claim that the Sheehans' BSA 
l3 See also, New York Citv Health t? Hospitals Corp. v 
McBarnette, 84 N.Y. 2d 194, 203, 
Footnote 2 (1994); and Matter of Scherbvn v Wavne -Finser Lakes Bd. of Coop. Educ. Servs., 
77 N.Y.2d 753, 757-758 (1991). When there is a rational basis for the exercise of discretion by 
the administrative agency, a court must affirm its determination. Matter of Pel1 v Board of 
Education, 34 N.Y.2d 222, 231 (1974). Again, couched in the language of CPLR §7803[3] is 
the well settled principle that " 
 I... a court may not substitute its judgment for that of the board or 
body it reviews unless the decision under review is arbitrary and unreasonable and constitutes 
an abuse of discretion' ". [citation omitted] (m, supra, at 232). 
-1 3- [* 13 ]
appeal was arguably untimely at least three months before the issuance of the 
Resolution. It did not require extensive research and briefs, but rather a few simple 
declarative sentences citing to the BSA rules of practice and presenting the time line 
between the initial approval and the BSA appeal filing date. Said issue could also have 
been raised in the April 19, 2001 letter of Sheldon Lobel, Esq. to the BSA. To the 
contrary, it is apparent that petitioner’s counsel’s April 19, 2001 adjournment request 
to keep the record open (R. 150) and delay the BSA’s scheduled April 24,2001 
decision date was for the primary purpose of restating Pantelidis’ substantive 
arguments (raised in prior responses to the BSA) to the Sheehans’ March 26, 2001 
submission (R. 147). This submission filed the day before the BSA hearing reiterated 
and summarized the Sheehans’ interpretations of the relevant ZR’s and furnished 
simple diagrams of the exterior stairwell’s enlargement into the rear yard behind the 
building which the Sheehans claim increased the degree of petitioner’s non- 
compliance. And these ZR interpretations and supporting diagrams, photographs, etc., 
were previously asserted by the Sheehans’ engineers, architects and attorneys when 
they filed extensive complaints and papers before the DO6 in the Spring and Summer 
of 1999 and in their BSA appeal. The March 26, 2001 submission raised nothing new 
and simply could not have created any surprises for Pantelidis’ 
 c~unsel‘~. 
Parenthetically, since the Sheehans’ March 26, 2001, submission contained no new 14 
evidence that the BSA relied on as dispositive of the issues raised in the administrative appeal, 
petitioner cannot effectively argue it was denied an opportunity to be heard, vis-a-vis, this 
submission as his earlier submissions and counsels’ cogent arguments during the hearing as 
well as the DOB’s earlier submissions and arguments during the hearing fully presented 
Pantelidis’ position. Cf, In the Matter of Sunset Sanitation Service CorD. v. Board of Zoninq 
ADDeals of the Town of Smithtown, 172 A.D.2d 755, 569 N.Y.S.2d 141 
(2nd Dept., 1991). 
-1 4- [* 14 ]
Accordingly, the petitioner‘s challenge as to the timeliness of the Sheehans’ 
BSA appeal is ineffectual as it is not preserved for judicial review. In the Matter of 
Wertheimer v. Town of Huntinqton Zoninq Board of Appeals, 
 -A.D.2dP, 73 1 
N.Y.S.2d 80 
(2nd Dept., 2001); Huqhes v. Suffolk Countv Department of Civil Service, 
74 N.Y.2d 833, 546 N.Y.S.2d 335 (1989). Moreover, even if this challenge had been 
raised in the proceeding before the BSA, said claim could have been easily countered 
based upon the unquestioned verification of the administrative custom and practice of 
updating DOB decisions to allow parties with a direct and substantial interest to timely 
file BSA appeals (see, Footnote 12, supra). 
Initially, the courts have recognized that “...when applying its special expertise in 
a particular field to interpret statutory language, an agency’s [Le., the BSA) rational 
construction is entitled to deference [citations omitted] ...” In the Matter of Raritan 
Development Corp., et al., v. Silva, et al., 91 N.Y.2d 98,102, 667 N.Y.S.2d 327, 329 
(1997).See also, In the Matter of Botanical Garden, v. Board of Standards and Appeals 
of the Citv of New York, 91 N.Y.2d 413,671 N.Y.S.2d 423 (1998). 
Relevant to this discussion is the ZR 
§ 12-1 0 definition of an outer court: 
An “outer court” is any open area, other than a yard or 
portion thereof, which is unobstructed from its lowest level 
to the sky and which, except for one opening upon: 
(a) a front lot line; 
(b) a front yard; 
(c) a rear yard; or 
(d) any open area along a rear lot 
line or a side lot line having a 
width or depth of at least 30 feet, 
and which open area extends 
along the entire length of such 
rear or side lot line; 
-1 5- [* 15 ]
is bound by either building walls, or building walls and 
one or more lot lines other than a front lot 
line.(emphasis 
added) 
It seems readily apparent to this Court that when the BSA inspected the property, its 
Commissioners determined the open space between the building wall of the pre-I 961 
non-complying structure (14’ extension) and the side lot line, approximately 6’ in width, 
was not a constructed outer’court bound by two or more building walls or at least two 
building walls and lot line, but rather a westerly side yard “created” because of the 
non-complying structure’s protrusion into the easterly portion of the rear yard. Further, 
the BSA Commissioners further concluded that under the guise of eliminating another 
non-complying condition (Le., the westerly side yard between the 14’ extension building 
wall and the side lot line is less than 8’ wide in violation of ZR 
§23-462), the DOB 
impermissibly allowed the construction of the glass extension without regard to the rear 
yard 30’ depth requirement for the western portion thereof. (see, ZR 
923-47). In 
addition, the BSA opined that the DOB ‘s misplaced approval created a “...perception 
that the existence of the legal noncomplying structure [ i.e., the 14’ extension which 
reduced the rear yard’s depth to 24’ 
27 exempts the [remaining portion 
 of] the rear yard 
from all rear yard requirements [and] is contrary to the Zoning Resolution.” (bracketed 
matter added] (R. 1-2). 
In their considered judgment and experience, the BSA Commissioners properly 
ruled that although the construction of the glass extension between the non-complying 
structure and the side lot line appears to eliminate the western side yard thereby 
decreasing this non-complying condition, nonetheless, this purported “cure” could not 
offset a new or increased non-compliance relating the exterior stairwell’s encroachment 
-1 6- [* 16 ]
into the westerly portion of the rear yard leaving a depth of 25’ 8”, less than the 30’ 
otherwise required by the ZR. As the Resolution aptly noted, this illegal construction 
increased the degree of non-compliance with the minimum rear yard depth 
req u ire men t . 
But the Resolution was sending another message. When you apply to the DOB 
for a construction permit, you must be truthful and should “say what you mean and 
mean what you say”. It is glaringly obvious that the petitioner had no intention of 
building a “greenhouse” as the term is plainly understood and this nomenclature was 
improperly, albeit successfully, utilized in Pantelidis’ DOB application to circumvent the 
applicable ZR roadblocks and gain DOB approval for the exterior stairwell. Unlike the 
DOB, the BSA’s inspection of the building and property and review of the plans and 
records revealed that the exterior stairwell was not a complying green house structure, 
inter alia, “...because it was more than one story and taller than fourteen (14) feet 
above grade, see ZR 
23-44(b) (defining ‘greenhouse’), and it was clearly not a ‘glass 
enclosure used for cultivating plants with operable windows and jalousies’ ... a 
determination which Petitioner does not dispute.” (Sheehans’ Memorandum of Law in 
support of OSC -2 at p. 13). 
Based upon the foregoing analysis, this Court holds the BSA’s reversal of the 
DOB Manhattan Borough Commissioner’s decision approving the glass extension is 
rational and supported by substantial evidence. In the Matter of Beekman Hill 
Association, Inc. et al.. v. James Chin, et al. See Footnote 1 
I supra. This article 78 
Petition must therefore be dismissed. 
This Court further holds that the petitioner has not shown the requisite factors to 
-1 7- [* 17 ]
trigger that rare exception that would otherwise permit him to invoke the estoppel 
doctrine against a municipality to avoid the inevitable deconstruction of the illegal 
exterior stairwell. In the Matter of Parkview Associates v. City of New York, et al., 71 
N.Y.2d 274, 279, 525 N.Y.S.2d 176 (1988) ( “ ...[ 
Elstoppel is not available to preclude a 
governmental entity from discharging its statutory duties or to compel ratification of prior 
erroneous implementation in the issuance of an invalid permit...”). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner’s OSC is denied and the remaining branch of 
Sheehans’ OSC -2 is granted to the extent of dismissing the underlying Article 78 
petition. 
This constitutes the decision and order of this Court. Courtesy copies of this 
decision and order have been furnished to respective counsel for the parties. 
Dated: New York, New York 
December 26,2001 ka& A- 
Hon. Martin Shulman, J.S.C. 
-1 8- [* 18 ]
