Matter of Wilkins v Babar
2001 NY Slip Op 30055(U)
September 20, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number:
Judge: Paula J. Omansky
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE PART 
vq 
-v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I 
I 
I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I I 
Replying Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Cross-Motion: $j Yes 
0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 47 
........................................... -X 
In the Matter of the Application of 
Index No. 
110116/01 
SAXAH WILKINS, as 
President of the 9th STREET 
A-1 BLOCK ASSOCIATION, RON PLOTKIN, as treasurer 
of the ST. MARK'S PLACE A-1 BLOCK ASSOCIATION, 
Marcia Lemon as President of the LUDLOW STREET 
BLOCK ASSOCIATION, STATE SENATOR THOMAS K. DUANE, 
DENNIS RICCIO, LAUREN BARNES, NANCY COHN, 
LIZ DIAMOND, SAKI DREMELLAS, LAURIE GORDON, 
GAHAN HASKINS, KIM HONE, MARY ELLEN HOSTAK, 
SARAH JOHNSON, WILLIAM KLAYER, KATE KUBERT, 
KEITH LUBELL, JEFF LOHN, 9TH STREET ESTATES, INC. 
MICHAEL O'NEILL, SUSAN PILLAY, MAY ROUND, 
SARAH 
SCHULMAN, DAVID TABOR, JERRY ORTER, 
STEVE DiPERO, ROB SIMPSON, JACKSON KRALL, TAM1 HAUSMAN, 
LISA KRAMER, DAVID MORROW, SALLY BOON, MICHAEL 
ROSENTHAL, MARLENE PARACIOS, KATHERINE WOLPE, 
GEORGE STEGMEIR, SUSAN ALLEE, GAIL LARROCA, 
SUSAN CHAN, EMANUEL DELALAIN, WENDY WOOD, 
PAUL KORINSKI, JORDAN MAMONE, and ROY NATHANSON 
Petitioners, 
ORDER AND JUDGMENT 
For a Judgment under Article 78 
of the Civil Practice Law & Rules, 
- 
against- 
SATISH K. BABAR, R.A., as Acting Commissioner 
of the NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS, 
VANHER SHAH, Acting Borough Commissioner of the 
CITY OF NEW YORK DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS, 
and the NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS 
Respondents. 
X ____________________-___--_--_-------------- 
PAULA J. OMANSKY, J. : 
In this Article 78 proceeding, petitioners seek to rescind the 
revocation letter issued by respondents dated May 8, 2001, and May 
9, 2001, (the May 2001 Revocation Letters ") to the extent that they 
permit any further submission of evidence to the respondent New 
1 [* 2 ]
York City Department of Buildings (I'DOB") by any party interested 
in the construction of a commercial premises at East Store 
Apartment, 412-414 East 9th Street New Ycrk, New York. 
Petitioners also seek to reinstate the Final Revocation Letter 
issued by DOB, dated June 18, 1999, ordering the cessation of all 
further work at the premises (the "June 1999 Final Revocation 
Letter"). In addition, petitioners request that this court direct 
respondents to fully enforce the zoning laws and to prohibit any 
further operations of commercial business on the premises. 
?etitioners, also seek an award of costs, disbursements and 
aztorneys fees upon the grounds that the respondents acted with 
:;.anton and deliberate disregard of the law, gross negligence and 
that it knowingly refused to implement the New York City Zoning 
Resolution ("Zoning Resolution ") (General City Law §§ 81-c [2] and 
E2 [2] ) . 
Respondents cross-move, pursuant to CPLR 3211 (a) (2) , 
CPLR(a) (7) , CPLR 7801(1) and CPLR 7803, on the grounds that the 
court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over this proceeding and 
petitioners have failed to state a cause of action upon which 
relief may be granted. 
FACTS 
Petitioners include property owners on 9th Street between 
First Avenue and Avenue A, New York, New York, taxpayers and 
residents of 9th Street between First Avenue and Avenue A, 
 axp payers and residents of St. Mark's Place between First Avenue 
and Avenue A, and residents of nearby neighborhoods. Three c-. 
2 [* 3 ]
cnincorporated associations appear through their presidents or 
zreasurers (General Association Law § 12). Petitioners maintain, 
that except for the last category of petitioners, they are all 
directly affected by the conduct of the respondent DOB because a 
predominately residential block will be transformed by this large 
alcohol -dispensing restaurant. This change in use, according to 
petitioners, will add to the vermin in the neighborhood as well as 
increase the noise, traffic, garbage removal, and congestion iii an 
already crowded neighborhood. 
Petitioners allege that respondents "surreptitiously " 
permitted Ilan Zinner, president of 412 East 9th Streez Realty 
Corp. and the owner of subject building, a non-party, - Thomas 
Earnada of the Ebisu Corporation, a non-party, and Robert Strong, 
R.A. a non-party and architect under the employ of Ebisu Corp. and 
others to construct or install 
 a 
commercial 
 establishment. 
According to petitioners, 
 respondents' determination will actually 
reward the three applicants for what petitioners' term a 
"deliberate forgery of the lease" which was allegedly submitted by 
Pr. Zinner and the Ebisu Corp. for the sole purpose of misleading 
the respondent Department of 
Buildings" (petition, 
 7 3). 
The history of this dispute is long and complicated. In 1977, 
the basement space located in the subject premises, was home to a 
bar known as the "Frog Pond." From 1978 through 1979, the space 
was utilized as a residential apartment by an individual named 
'The landlord has not been made a party to this action and 
ceither side argues to add the landlord as a necessary party. 
3 [* 4 ]
"John Jonas. " In an order dated December 8, 1985, the New York 
State Division of Housing and Community Renewal 
 (IIDHCR") held that 
the inspection made by this Agency in the subject 
apartment shows that the apartment is used for 
residential purposes. Therefore, the tenant is entitled 
to the [sic.] Rent Stabilization lease. 
Mr. Jonas voluntary vacated the subject premises in 1997 and 
the premises remained vacant. On February 25, 1999, respondents 
issued a work permit in connection with the landlord's first 
application 
In March 1999, it came to the attention of petitioner 9th 
Street A-A Block Association ("Block Association ") that 
construction work was being done on the premises. Work permits 
which were issued by the DOB were displayed in front of the 
building. On March 11, 
199g2, counsel for the Block Association 
wrote to the DOB, objecting to the issuance of work 
premits. The 
Block Association claimed that a permit for a commercial use at the 
subject premises should not be granted because there had 
 rDt been 
a continuous non-conforming commercial use at the subject premises 
since December 15, 1361. The Block Association also submitted 
documentation which demonstrated that the portion of the subject 
premise in question had been occupied as a residential use for 
approximately 20 years. Hence, the Block association concluded 
that 
any non-conforming use that had existed at the subject premise 
had been discontinued for more than two years, and required the 
Petit$p,ners have also filed objections to Ebisu Corp.'s 
applicationpa restaurant wine license with the New York State 
Liquor Authority. 
4 [* 5 ]
space to remain as residential. 
On April 22, 1999, the DOB issued a 10-day letter of 
revocation for the subject premises but permitted the applicant to 
present evidence of conformity with all laws. Later on May 6, 
1999, the DOB granted a five-day extension of the revocation for 
the purpose of allowing the landlord and restaurant owner to submit 
evidence of conforming use. 
However, petitioners maintain that the construction work 
continued and that petitioner Sarah Wilkins notified the DOB about 
the alleged violation on May 10, 1999. 
On May 11, 1999, the DOB rescinded its letter of 
revocatior! 
based upon the submissions of landlord and the architect. 
Petitioners' attorney wrote DOB and requested that the revocation 
be reinstate'd and that his clients have an opportunity tc revie-ji 
the submissions and to respond. 
DOB sent copies of the submissions to petitioners on May 16, 
1999. Petitioners contend that the landlord and the architect 
submitted a forged commercial lease to DOB Borough Commissioner 
RGnny Livian. The lease stated that it was an agreement for the 
East Store premises and listed the name of the lessee as 
"Gisella's 
Secrets. 
 I' 
On May 17, 1992, petitioners contested the validity of the 
lease pointing out that the lease, which was supposedly executed in 
1987, was made using a preprinted form that was only created in 
1994. In further support of their position, petitioners presented 
a copy of the affidavit of the former tenant of the bakery known as 
5 [* 6 ]
"Gisella's Secrets " dated May 16, 1999. The tenant stated that 
the signature was not her own but a forgery, and that she was the 
tenant in the West Store and not the East Store (see, 
petitior, Ex. 
L) . 
On May 26, 1999, DOB reissued a letter of revocation to Mr. 
Strong. Mr. Zinner, and Eli Koike. Soon after, on June 18, 1999, 
the respondent DOB issued the June 1999 Final Revocation Letter, 
which stated that 
"evidence of a continued on-conforming use of the 
was store was found to be 
unsatisfactory." The letter also directed 
that 
l'[alll further 
 canstruction shall cease as of this date." 
Petitioners maintain that there was no construction on the 
site from June 18, 1999 until April 17, 2001, when work resumed. 
Petitioners Contacted DOB, regarding the reactivated construction 
and learned that the landlord had filed a new work permit 
application on December 28, 2000 (Application No. 102934238). On 
January 12, 2001, DOB issued a permit to the landlord in connection 
with the second application. 
The Block 
Associa'tion again objected to the application and 
DOB advised the landlard in a latter, dated May 8, 2001 that the 
permit would be revoked "on the basis that a non-conforming store 
or, the First (1st) floor in an R7-2 district had been discontinued 
for more than two years ... and is contrary to Section 52-61 of the 
Zoning Resolution. " In a revised letter, dated May 9, 2001, DOB 
advised that the permit would be revoked "on the basis that a non- 
conforming store never existed on the first (1st) floor in an R7-2 
district . . . 
[tlherefore, changing the space to a commercial use is 
6 [* 7 ]
not allowed in a Residential District. " 
In response to DOB's May 2001 letters, the landlord provided 
documentation to the agency, in the form of records from the New 
York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development and 
listings from the Yellow Pages phone directory for 1959, 1950, and 
1962, whlch the landlord maintains, demonstrates that a commercial 
use existed during the relevant time period, in the basement 
portion of the subject premises. 
On May 25, 2001, petitioners learned that DOB 
rescisded all 
revocation letters. Petitioners then 
commenced this Article 78 
proceeding. 
DISCUSSION 
Subiect Matter Jurisdiction 
Respondents argue that this action is premature because 
petitioners have failed to exhaust administrative remedies. 
Respondents note that section 26-250 of the Administrative Code of 
the City of New York ("Administrative Code") , which governs the 
review procedures of DOB decisions, permits parties to appeal 
determination made by DOB to the Board of Standards and Appeals 
("BSA")'. Section 666(6) (9) of the Charter of the City of New York 
(the 
"Charter") specifically grants lessees and tenants the right 
to appear in front of the BSA. 
In New York, the right of litigants to immediate judicial 
'Section 25-204 of the Administrative Code excludes for the 
appeals process, those orders of the DOB which concern dangerous 
buildings, places and things or which direct owners to correct 
unsafe conditions. 
7 [* 8 ]
review depends upon whether the parties are seeking to compel an 
administrative agency to perform a ministerial act or to review an 
administrative action (Capers v 
Giuliani, 253 AD2d 630, 633 [Ist 
Dept 19981 , appeal dismissed 
 in part, denied 
in part 93 NY2d 858 
[1999]). Decisions by local municipal officials on whether to 
affirmatively enforce zoning codes are discretionary and are not, 
generally, subject to judicial oversight in a civil suit or by way 
cf mandamus (Manuli v Hildenbrandt, 144 AD2d 789, 790 [3d Cept 
19881). However, DOB has no discretion to issue a building permit 
which fails to conform with applicable law or to issue a permit for 
a structure which is not in compliance with the relevant zoning 
ordinances (Parkview Assoc. v City of New York, 71 NY2d 279, 2E1, 
rearq denied 71 NY2d 995, appeal dismissed, cert denied 488 US 801 
[1988]; Perrotta v City of New York, Dept of Bldq., 107 AD2d 320, 
325 [lst Dept] , affd 66 NY2d 859 
[1985]). Furthermore, exhaustion 
of administrative remedies is not 
requyred where an agency's action 
is challenged as being beyond its grant of power (Lehiqh Portland 
Cement Co. v New York State Deot of Environmental Conservation, 87 
NY2d 136, 140 [1995]; Johnson v Office of Health Sys. Mat. of the 
New York State DeDt. of Health, 251 AD2d 20 [lst Dept 19981). 
Therefore, respondents' cross motion to dismiss this 
proceeding for lack of subject matter jurisdiction is denied. This 
Court has subject matter jurisdiction over the instant proceeding 
but shall limit is analysis to determining whether DOB violated the 
Zoning Law and whether the governing law limits DOB's authority to 
rescind the revocation letters (cf., Koultukis v 
PhilliDs, 
8 [* 9 ]
AD2d 
 __ , 728 NYS2d 440 [lst Dept 20011). 
Zoninq Resolution 
A review of the governing statutory framework indicates that 
Chapter 26 of the Charter empowers DOB to enforce provisions of the 
New York City Building Code, the Zoning Resolution and other 
la-ds, 
rules and regulations governing the construction, alteration, 
maintenance, use and occupancy, and safety of buildings or 
structures in the City of New York (Charter § 643). Therefore, the 
DOB is the proper administrative agency to consider whether to 
grant the landlord the right to make structural changes to zhe 
basement area necessary for a commercial establishment. 
This court also 
 rej.ects petitioners' argument that the SOB 
violated either the explicit provisions or the underlying public 
purpose of the municipal zoning regulations. 
Chapter 2 of Article I1 of the Zoning Resolution, adopted on 
December 15, 1961, divides the City into three zoning use 
districts, residential 
 (Rl-R10) , commercial 
 (Cl-C8) and 
manufacturing 
 (Ml-M3). These three categories are further divided 
into low, moderate, and high density districts; the higher the 
number after the letter, the greater density of use allowed. In 
addition, the Zoning Resolution set forth 18 different use groups. 
The uses listed in each use group have common functional or 
nuisance characteristics. Business conforming to use groups 1-4 
ha7;e a relatively low nuisance impact and are permitted in 
residential districts. Here, the subject premises is located in 
an R7-2 residential zoning district. 
9 [* 10 ]
The Zoning Resolution only permits residential and certain 
community facility uses in structures located in areas designated 
residential zoning districts (Matter of TOYS "R" Us v Silva, 89 
NY2d 411, 418 [1996] , quoting Zoning Resolution § 52-61). Although 
New York law generally views nonconforming uses as detrimental to 
a zoning scheme and the overriding public policy of this State is 
aimed at the reasonable restriction and eventual elimination of 
nonconforming uses, the Zoning Resolution takes into account the 
fact that a building may have been used in a manner different from 
what was initially permitted (ibid.). In particular, section 52-11 
of the Zoning Resolution states that a "non-conforming use'" may 
be continued, subject to various exceptions set forth in Chapter 2 
of Article V of the Zoning Resolution. 
One of these exceptions, which is outlined in section 52-61 of 
the Zoning Resolution, provides that a building reverts to its 
original use if the non-conforming use is discontinued for a period 
of two years'. However, the fact that commercial use of the 
'A non-conforming use is defined as "any lawful use, whether 
of a building or other structure or of a tract of land, which 
does not conform to any one or more of the applicable use 
regulations of the district in which it is located, either on 
December 15, 1961 or as a result of any subsequent amendment 
thereto " (The Zoning Resolution § 12-10). 
Section 52-61 of the Zoning Resolution provides in 
pertinent part: 
[ilf, for a continuous period of two years, ... the 
active operation of substantially all the non- 
conforminq uses in any buildinq 
 01 other structure is 
discontinued, such land or buildinq or other structure 
shall thereafter be used only for a conforming 
 use. 
Intent to resume active operations shall not affect che 
10 [* 11 ]
subject premises was interrupted is not: dispositive in this case 
since the remaining portion of section 52-62 protects businesses 
located in residential areas by exempting basement stores frGm the 
two-year rule6. 
Since the present record shows that subject premises clearly 
falls within the exemption, the Zoning Resolution does not prohibit 
the landlord from renting the subject premises to a commercial 
tenant. Furthermore, petitioners have failed to present any 
evidence that DHCR specifically declared that subject premises 
could not revert to prior commercial use. The administrative 
determination submitted by petitioners only requires the landlord, 
who chose to rent to a residential tenant, to comply with the rent 
regulatory laws and issue a Rent Stabilization lease. This 
determination is silent as to the future status of the space once 
foregoing. 
'This exemption provides that 
[e] xcept in "Historic Districts " as designated by the 
Landmarks Preservation Commission and the Board of 
Estimate, the provisions of this Section shall not 
apply to vacant ground floor or basement stores in 
buildinqs desiqned for residential 
 use located in R5, 
R6, or R7 Districts where the changed or reactivated 
use is listed in Use Group 6A, 6B, 6C, or 6F excluding 
post offices, veterinary medicine for small animals, 
automobile supply stores, electrolysis studios, and 
drive-in banks. In addition, the changed or 
reactivated 
 use shall be subject to the proviso of 
Section 52-54 (Commercial Uses in Residence Districts). 
(Zoning Resolution § 52-62). Use Group 6A allows eating or 
drinking establishments including those which provide outdoor 
table service or have music for which there is no cover charge or 
specified showtime (Zoning Resolution § 32-15). 
11 [* 12 ]
the named tenant departs. The question of whether the present 
space is required to remain permanently as residential housing 
stock, pursuant to the rent-regulatory laws, is not properly before 
this court. All such matters must first be addressed to the 
appropriate agency which has primary jurisdiction over this issue 
(Davis v Waterside Housinq Co., Inc., 274 AD2d 318 [lst Dept], 
Iv 
denied 95 NY2d 770 
[20001). 
Fenaltx 
As to the question of appropriate penalty, the 
Administrazlve 
Code permits the Commissioner of DOB to close, as a public 
nuisance, a building or a part of a structure which is improperly 
cccupied for commercial ,or manufacturing use in a 
resideciial 
district (Administrative Code 
§26-127.2 [a] and [bl 
 1 . Howe-ier, 
since section 52-61 of the Zoning Resolution creates an 
exemFzion 
for business located in basement of buildings in residential areas, 
respondents have no authority to close down the subject premises 
salely on the basis that the landlord seeks to convert the space to 
permissible commercial use 
This court also denies petitioners' request to expand the 
scope of civil penalties provided by the Administrative Code, to 
include the requested relief (Raritan Dev. Corp. v Silva, 91 NY2d 
98, 107 [19971). Section 26-115 of the Administrative Code grants 
the Commissioner of the DOB the power 
to issue notices and order for the enforcing compliance 
with any law, rule or regulation in respect to any 
matters under the jurisdiction of the department , and for 
remedying any condition found to exist in, on or about 
any building, enclosure or premises in violation of any 
12 [* 13 ]
law, rule or regulation in respect to any such matters. 
Section 27-197 of the Administrative Code specifically gives the 
Commissioner of DOB the authority to revoke a permit that was 
issued in error or was based on false information. Respondents 
correctly rescinded prior permits and issued stop-work orders based 
on the belief that the landlord was acting in contravention of the 
zoning laws (Parkview Assoc. v City of New York, supra, 71 NY2d, at 
282). 
Here, petitioners have failed to cite any authority which 
requires respondents to issue an additional prospective civil 
penalty against the landlord and/or architect who allegedly filed 
a fraudulent lease7. Although the permanent withholding of all 
future work permits, which seek permission to use the space 
commercially, would help to deter impropriety, the present 
statutory scheme does not extend such prospective punitive powers 
In comparison, the Administrative Code provides for 
criminal proceedings against owners, architects, builders, 
contractors and any other persons, who violate the provisions of 
any laws, rules or regulations enforceable by the DOB 
(A-dministrative Code §26-125) or who violated the strictures cf 
applicable zoning resolutions (Administrative Code § 26-126). 
Penalties include criminal fines and in some cases imprisonment 
(Administrative Code §§ 25-125 [a] and [bl; 
26-126Lkl). In 
particular, section 26-124 of the Administrative Code 
criminalizes the knowing issuance of false statements in 
certificates, forms, written statements, applications, reports or 
certificates of correction. Convictions are considered 
misdemeanors which are "punishable by a fine of not less than one 
thousand dollars nor more than five thousand dollars, or by 
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both" (Administrative 
Code 26-124 [a] ) . 
However, since there has been no criminal proceeding, 
judicial review in this proceeding is limited to the scope of 
civil penalties permissible under the Administrative Procedure 
Code. 
13 [* 14 ]
to DOE. The specific relief requested by petitioners requires 
legislative action and cannot be implemented by judicial fiat 
(Raritan Dev. Corp. v Silva, suDra, 91 NY2d, at 107). 
Petitioners have also not supported their position thzr the 
landlord is prevented from reapplying for a new permit and 
supplementing the record with accurate and appropriate 
documentation to support. Respondents cannot bar owners from 
correcting violations or from submitting additional evidence in 
support of their position because due process requires that the DOB 
must give the applicant an opportunity to be heard after the 
revocation of a permit (Tafnet Realty Corp. v New York Citv, Dept. 
of Bldss., 118 Misc2d 498, 499, n 1 [Sup Ct, NY County 
 1983j,. 
Since petitioners have failed to show that respondents acted 
in a manner which was inconsistent with governing statutes, the 
court is unable to reinstate the 
June 1999 Final Revocation Letter 
or grant any of the requested alternative relief (Parkway Villase 
Ecruities Corp. v Board of Standards and Appeals of the Citv of New 
-I York 279 AD2d 299 [lst Dept] denied 96 NY2d 711 
[20011). The 
petition is denied in its entirety and respondents' cross motion to 
dismiss the petition for failure to state a cause of action is 
granted. All requests for attorney fees, costs and disbursements 
are denied. 
14 [* 15 ]
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that respondents' cross motion to dismiss the 
 pe.cition 
for failure to state a cause of action is granted and it is further 
ADJUDGED that the petition is denied and the proceeding is 
dismissed. All requests for attorney fees, costs and disbursements 
are denied. 
This constitutes the order and judgment of the court 
J.S.C. 
15 [* 16 ]
