Lubell v Samson Moving & Storage, Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30026(U)
April 11, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0604623/4623
Judge: Walter B. Tolub
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
#t PART PRESENT: /&- ONR 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
-v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion tolfor 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I I 
I 
Reply in g Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
Cross-Motion: 0 Yes 0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion & 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION 1 b SPOSITION [* 1 ]
DORIS LUBELL, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
SAMSON MOVING & STORAGE, INC., 
Defendant. Index No. 604623/98 
Mtn Seq. No. 003 
WALTER B. TOLUB, J.: 
Defendant Samson Moving & Storage moves, pursuant to CPLR 
3212, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. 
This action arises out of the defendant's storage of 
plaintiff's property in its warehouse. The plaintiff retained 
the defendant to move her personal belongings into the 
defendant's storage facility (Opposition Papers, Ex. C). Upon 
delivery to the defendant's storage facility on November 11, 
1990, the plaintiff's husband conducted an inventory and 
inspection of the goods (L, Ex. D). That exhibit indicates 
that the items sustained varying degrees of damage. 
connection with the storage of the plaintiff's property, 
plaintiff's husband executed a storage contract, which provided 
for a monthly storage fee of $135.31 (L, Ex. F). In 
On May 20, 1998, approximately eight years later, the 
plaintiff went to the defendant's warehouse to retrieve her 
property. She alleges that her property was either missing or [* 2 ]
severely damaged (Lube11 Aff., ¶¶ 6-9) . Thereafter, the 
plaintiff commenced this action against the defendant for 
negligence and breach of contract. 
The defendant contends that it is entitled to summary 
judgment dismissing the complaint because the plaintiff allegedly 
acknowledged that the property had no value. The defendant 
relies on the affidavit of its president, Moshe Deutsch, to 
support its contention. In his affidavit, Mr. Deutsch states 
that "[i]n the shed [located in the plaintiff's backyard] were a 
number of paintings" and that when he inquired about them the 
plaintiff told him "not to worry about the paintings" and "just 
move those items into storage" (Deutsch Aff., ¶ 6). Mr. Deutsch 
further states that he ''offered to wrap the paintings, but 
plaintiff declined saying that special handling was not 
necessary" (a). Assuming the truth of statements, they, 
standing alone, do not support the defendant's contention that 
the plaintiff "acknowledged" that the property placed in storage 
had no value. 
plaintiff's and her husband's statements in their affidavit 
disputing the defendant's assertion that there was an 
"acknowledgment" that the property was worthless (see, Opposition 
Papers). Indeed, credibility issues exist in light of the 
The defendant next argues that its liability should be 
limited to thirty cents per pound pursuant to the storage 
contract. This argument is unavailing. Here, the defendant 
2 [* 3 ]
provided two types of services: transportation versus storage. 
The liability limitations that it seeks to impose on the 
plaintiff apply only to claims arising out of its transportation 
of the plaintiff's property (Opposition Papers, Exs. C and E). 
Indeed, both the language in both documents indicate that they 
were bills of lading for shipping and transporting the 
plaintiff's property. This action is for damages arising 
out of the defendant's storage of the plaintiff's property. As 
for the storage services, a review of the storage contract 
reveals that the signature line for the liability limitation is 
blank (Opposition Papers, Ex. F). Thus, the defendant's 
liability is not limited to thirty cents per pound. 
Accordingly, the defendant's motion for summary judgment is 
denied. 
Counsel are directed to appear for a pre-trial conference in 
IA Part 15 (Room 335, 60 Centre Street) on May 4, 2001 at 11 a.m. 
for the purpose of resolving any remaining discovery issues and 
setting a trial date for this action. 
This constitutes the decision and order of the Court. 
I 
B. TOLUB, J.S.C. 
3 [* 4 ]
