Sack v Deutsch
2001 NY Slip Op 30062(U)
April 12, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 601472/01
Judge: Martin Schoenfeld
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 28 
RICHARD SACK AND PETEZI SACK, -X 
 .................................... 
Plaintiff, 
- against - 
CHARLOTTE 
 ClEUTSCH, et al. , Index No. 
 601472/01 
DECISION, ORDER 
and JUDGMENT 
Food, ud, 
Defendants. 
MARTIN SCHOENFELD. J.: SCANNED 
APR 11 2002 
Motions 002, 004, and 005 are consolidated for disposition 
and disposed of as follows: 
In this action plaintiffs Richard and Petezi Sack assert 
various claims all based upon an alleged right of first refusal 
to purchase the building in which plaintiffs have long resided, 
located at 138 West 
73rd Street, New York, NY ("the building "). 
Defendants Gordon Jacques Kahn; Edgar Galloway; Fernando 
Polletta; :Eileen Polletta (collectively, "the Kahn Group") ; 
Jeffrey D. 'Taub; Meyers, Greenawalt, Taub & Wild (collectively, 
"the Taub Defendants ") ; and S. Stanley Deutsch, now move, and 
Charlotte Deutsch now cross-moves, for summary judgment. For the 
reasons set forth herein, the motions and cross-motion are 
granted, the complaint is dismissed with prejudice, and the Kahn 
Group defendants are awarded summary judgment on their 
counterclaim seeking a declaration that plaintiffs' alleged right [* 1 ]
of first refusal is void as against the Kahn Group and the 
property. 
Backqround 
In or about 1973 plaintiffs leased the basement apartment in 
the building from the Deutsches.’ In or about April 1985 
plaintiffs filed a rent overcharge complaint with the New York 
State Division of Housing and Community Renewal (”DHCR“). In or 
about August 1987 the DHCR proceeding was purportedly resolved 
pursuant to an undated, handwritten stipulation (Taub Moving 
Exhibit A) (“the 1987 Stipulation”) that includes, as 
7 12 
thereof, the alleged right of first refusal: 
12) Landlord gives the tenant‘s [sic] the right of 
first refusal in the event Landlord seeks to sell 
Subject Premises while tenants continue to be the 
tenants of record of the apartment . . . . 
The stipulation was signed by plaintiffs; their attorney, John 
Tilley; Charlotte Deutsch (as “Landlord”) ; and Jason 
Deutschmeister (as “Atty for Charlotte Deutsch“) . The 1987 
Stipulation purportedly resolved pending landlord -tenant 
The Deutsches‘ marital status, or lack thereof, then and 
now is unclear to this Court. It appears that they were husband 
and wife in 1973 but later divorced. Today‘s decision is 
independent of their status at any point in time. 
2 [* 2 ]
litigation in Civil Court (Index No. 
83802/87) and was filed 
there, as we11 as with DHCR and in Criminal Court (where some 
form of harassment complaint had been pending). 
S. Stanley Deutsch did not sign the 1987 Stipulation. He 
states (Moving Affidavit f[ 5) that Charlotte was not his agent or 
otherwise 
 a.uthorized to act on his behalf. On the other hand, 
Tilley states (Opposition Exhibit G, f[f[ 3-4) "that 
representations were made . . . at the time of the execution of 
the [1987 Stipulation], that Charlotte Deutsch was fully 
empowered to bind the 'Landlord' in all its 
promises" and that 
"[s]pecifically, both Charlotte Deutsch and her attorney 
represented that she had full legal authority from Stanley 
Deutsch to enter into the covenants in [the 1987 Stipulation]. " 
Richard Sack states (Opposition Affidavit 5) that Charlotte 
Deutsch "expressly stated that she had a written power of 
attorney from her former husband" and that she "stated she was 
fully 
empowlered in writing by Mr. Deutsch to bind him.'' This 
Court will gissume, solely for DurDoses of the instant motion, 
that representations were made that Charlotte Deutsch had 
authority to act for S. Stanley Deutsch. However, the legal 
effect, if any, of these representations need not be and is not 
decided. 
3 [* 3 ]
In or about July 1999 Charlotte Deutsch retained the Taub 
Defendants to commence what became a series of landlord -tenant 
summary proceedings against plaintiffs. Taub filed a Petition 
dated June 28, 1999 in Deutsch v Sack, Index No. 
 82374/99 (also 
written as 
 \’872374/99ii) (Opposition Exhibit I) that refers to the 
1987 Stipulation. Taub also submitted a September 28, 1999 
Affidavit (Opposition Exhibit J) of Charlotte Deutsch that had 
annexed as an exhibit thereto a copy of the 1987 Stipulation. 
Although aware of the existence of extensive prior litigation, 
including the existence of the 1987 Stipulation, 
he was not aware of the alleged right of first refusal until on 
or about March 27, 2001, when plaintiffs served Taub with a 
cross-motion in the then-current landlord -tenant litigation. 
Again, this Court will assume, solely for PurDoses of the instant 
motion, that Taub had actual or constructive notice of the 
alleged right of first refusal prior to the contract and sale 
here in issue. Taub states that 
In an Affidavit dated June 23, 2000 (Unnumbered Exhibit to 
Kahn Group 
motion), Petezi Sack claimed that she was entitled to 
“poor person” status, pursuant to CPLR Article 11, in the then- 
pending landlord -tenant summary proceeding. 
includes the following statement: 
4 The Affidavit 
\\I own no property of any kind [* 4 ]
except necessary wearing apparel and home furnishings + 
housewares. Later, in an Affidavit dated March 27, 2001 
(Unnumbered Exhibit to Kahn Group motion, 
 g 521, Petezi Sack 
stated that: plaintiffs had "been forced to spend [their] savings 
[and] have had to borrow money to survive. " 
Meanwhile, in or about September 2000, the Deutsches, 
represented by defendants Ronald S. Herbst and Gazianis & Herbst 
(collectively, "the Herbst Defendants ") contracted to sell the 
building to the Kahn group, represented by the Taub Defendants, 
for $2,000,000. The sale closed on January 10, 2001. Richard 
Sack apparently does not question the contract price, as he 
states (Opposition Affidavit 
 1 10) that '\[t]he product of Taub's 
efforts was a contract dated September 28, 2000, whereby the 
Deutsches agreed to sell the Building to [the Kahn Group] for a 
price of $2 million. " The Taub defendants informed plaintiffs of 
the sale several weeks later, on or about January 29, 2001. Soon 
after 
purch,asing the building, the Kahn Group settled the 
landlord -tenant litigation with plaintiffs. 
It is undisputed that the Deutsches did not offer plaintiffs 
an opportunity to purchase the building on the same terms and 
conditions as the Kahn Group bought it. The complaint 
 (7 45) 
states that plaintiffs \\were ready and willing to purchase the 
5 [* 5 ]
Premises under the terms and conditions of the” sale to the Kahn 
Group. 
in excess of $3 , 500,000. The complaint (7 48) alleges that the building is worth 
The Alleqecl Causes of Action 
The first cause of action in the complaint seeks rescission 
of the sale to the Kahn Group and specific performance of 
plaintiffs’ alleged right of first refusal. 
The second cause of action seeks to enjoin the Kahn Group 
from conveying, encumbering, or renting the property. 
The third cause of action seeks damages from the Deutsches 
for breach of contract. 
The fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action seeks damages 
against the non-Deutsch defendants for tortious interference with 
contractual relations. 
The seventh cause of action seeks treble damages against 
Taub for violating Judiciary Law § 487. 
The Kahn Group’s Answer - Excerpts 
The second affirmative defense in the Kahn Group’s answer 
is 
that “plaintiffs were not financially capable of meeting all the 
financial requirements of the contract of sale. ” 
6 [* 6 ]
The third affirmative defense asserts that the alleged right 
of first refusal is void for indefiniteness. 
The fourth and fifth affirmative defenses assert that 
plaintiffs forfeited any alleged right of first refusal by 
continually failing to pay rent. 
The sixth affirmative defense asserts that the alleged right 
of first refusal is "void on its face " because Charlotte and 
Stanley Deutsch owned the building as tenants -in-common, whereas 
only Charlotte signed the 1987 Stipulation. 
The eighth affirmative defense asserts that the Kahn Group 
members were bona fide purchasers and, thus, entitled to the 
protection of Real Property Law §§ 291, 294. 
The Kahn Group's Answer includes a counterclaim for a 
declaration that plaintiffs' claims to a right of first refusal 
are void as against them "and the premises.'' 
Discussion 
The 
pa:rties' submissions raise a plethora of potentially 
interesting issues, including the effect, if any, of the granting 
by only one tenant in common of a purported right of first 
7 [* 7 ]
refusal; the requisite specificity of such a right'; 
to which (alleged) breaches of an agreement containing 
 a right of 
first refusal would vitiate the right; and the extent to which 
the (alleged) constructive notice of counsel of an encumbrance on 
property is to be imputed to a client claiming bona fide 
purchaser status. 
disclosure, pursuant to 
dispositive motion based thereon. However, these issues need 
not 
be and are not reached, as this Court finds dispositive of the 
entire case the fact that plaintiffs have failed to rebut 
the 
claim that they were not "able" to exercise their alleged right 
of first refusal. the extent 
Some of these issue might have required 
CPLR 3212 (f) , prior to the making of a 
A plaintiff relying on a right to purchase property must 
"demonstrate that 
purchase the 
property." Handy v 
Manqanelli, 181 AD2d 658, 658 
(2d Dept 1992) 
contained in lease to purchase demised premises); 
Huntinqton Min. 
Holdinqs v Cottontail Plaza, Inc., 60 NY2d 997, 
998 (1983). Furthermore, "a party opposing [a summary 
 judgment] [plaintiff] was ready, willing and able to 
(action for specific performance of option 
accord, 
. must produce evidentiary proof in admissible form motion . 
At first blush, the instant right appears definite enough 
to be enforced and, therefore, not void for indefiniteness. 
8 [* 8 ]
sufficient to require a trial of material questions of fact on 
which the opposing claim rests. '[Mlere conclusions, expressions 
of hope or unsubstantiated allegations or assertions are 
insufficient' for this purpose. " Gilbert Frank CorD. v Federal 
Ins. Co., 70 NY2d 966, 967 (1988) (citations omitted). 
Plaintiffs have failed to provide anything but conclusions and 
unsubstantiated allegations about their ability to purchase the 
building. A plaintiff may not avoid summary dismissal "by 
raising a feigned factual issue." Miller v 
City of New York, 214 
AD2d 657 (2d Dept 1995). 
As noted above, at around the time here in issue, plaintiffs 
were claiming that they themselves were destitute. They are now 
estopped from claiming otherwise. 
Their sole opposition to defendants' claim that they were 
not "ready, willing and able" to exercise their alleged right of 
first refusal is the statement that their "plan is [sic] to 
obtain 
fina:ncing through a long-term acquaintance, Mark Luria," 
and the November 28, 2001 Affidavit of Mr. Luria himself 
(Opposition Exhibit L). Therein, Mr. Luria states, in essence, 
that he resides in England; that he has known Richard Sack for 
almost 50 years; that he is good friends with plaintiffs, is 
familiar with the building and the neighborhood, and often 
9 [* 9 ]
discussed plaintiffs‘ ”ongoing problems with their landlord”; 
that he was aware of the (alleged) right of first refusal and 
told Richard that he would be interested in being a “financial 
partner” in exercising that right; that he would like to purchase 
the 
building in partnership using plaintiffs‘ alleged right of 
first refusal and Luria’s financing; that he has long been 
involved in, inter alia, “the ownership, investment and 
management” of real estate; and that he still owns properties in 
Hawaii (6) , Bellevue Washington (1) , Oregon (2). He 
concludes 
thusly, 
In brief my financial condition is as follows: 
1. Value of listed securities and cash on hand: in excess of 
2. Equity in real property above indebtedness: in excess of 
3. Significant other assets including home which is debt free. 
Stock in private companies, notes and accounts receivable, 
and personal property. 
4. No other indebtedness of any kind. 
$2,500,000.00 
$10,000,000.00 
This Court will assume, solely for 
mxposes of the instant 
motion, that Luria would have been willing to be plaintiffs‘ 
partner if he had had the means. However, there is no way of 
knowing whether Luria had or has any means at all. Everything he 
states is pure ipse dixit. There is not a single statement of 
objective, verifiable fact. What securities, Enron? What 
accounts receivable, Global Crossing? What cash, Argentinian 
10 [* 10 ]
pesos? There are no deeds, no maps, no addresses, no contracts, 
no photographs, no appraisals, no certificate numbers, no 
bankbooks, no banker’s affidavit. There is pure conclusion and 
unsubstantiated allegation, from a person outside of the court’s 
jurisdiction and outside of the country. Furthermore, he was 
writing on behalf of people who, according to Justice Lottie E. 
Wilkins, in Sack v Deutsch, Index No. 
101603/95, in a Decision 
and Order dated “December 2000” (Taub Defendants Moving 
Affirmation., Exhibit C, at 9) said “attempted to perpetuate a 
fraud on the court by submitting false documents.” 
A very practical problem with plaintiffs’ reliance on 
Luria‘s affidavit is that defendants have been deprived of any 
meaningful means to rebut it in reply. Had Luria indicated what 
property and securities he owns, defendants‘ reply papers could 
have contested the ownership or value thereof. 
An affidavit that could have been drawn up in 10 minutes, 
that claims in excess of $12 million, all of which could be a 
complete fiction, is a thin reed indeed upon which to have this 
court restrain alienation of property (which is disfavored in the 
law) while numerous parties engage in disclosure that could drag 
on for months or years in a dispute which has been litigated in 
one form or another for over a decade. Furthermore, had 
11 [* 11 ]
plaintiffs taken the simple, expedient step of recording their 
alleged right of first refusal, there would be no question that 
the current owners would not be bona fide purchasers without 
notice. In a sense plaintiffs have slept on their rights all 
these years, and now want to litigate to the 
hilt.3 
The cases indicate that a claim of ability to exercise a 
right to bu.y must have a specific, factual grounding. In 
Globerman v Lederer, 281 AD 39 (lst Dept 1952), the issue 
was 
whether the plaintiff -real estate broker, suing for a commission, 
had procured a person ready, willing and able to purchase the 
property from the defendant. The court wrote as follows: 
In the annotation appearing at 1 A.L.R. 528, the 
holdings of the cases upon this subject are summarized 
as follows: 'It may be said, in general, that a 
proposed purchaser is not able, when he is depending 
upon third parties who are in no way bound to furnish 
the funds, to make the purchase. It is not necessary to 
follow a particular formula in order to establish 
financial ability of a prospective purchaser to meet 
the price, but there must be some tansible evidence 
from which a iury could conclude that he would have had 
the ability. Some facts must be adduced, beyond the 
mere conclusion of the prospective purchaser, that he 
could have performed his obligations in the 
t rans a 
(2 t i on . 
This; Court has already denied, in an opinion dated August 
30, 2001, plaintiffs request for a preliminary injunction against 
alienation of the property. The conclusions and result of that 
decision are not the basis for the instant decision. 
12 [* 12 ]
- Id. at 42-43 (emphasis added). 
Later, in Sieqel v Liese, 23 AD2d 425, 425 
 (3rd Dept 
1965), 
aff'd, 18 NY2d 930 (1966), relied upon by plaintiffs " (Opposition 
Brief at 18), "the prospective purchasers . . . testified in 
detail as to financial ability ample to consummate the 
transaction." Thus, there was "evidence . . . of specific 
assets and firm commitments by specified lenders.'' Indeed, 
Sieqel was in accord with Globerman: 
It seems to us clear that adequate 
for a jury's evaluation, as required by Globerman . . 
is to be found here in the specific and detailed 
testimony of the prospective purchasers, 
unequivocal references to identified sources and, 
some instances, documents. 'tangible evidence' 
with 
in 
Nothing of the sort is present here. Thus, plaintiffs have 
failed to raise an issue of fact as to whether, despite their 
penury, they were "able" to exercise their alleged right of first 
refusal. 
Conclusion 
As noted above and by counsel for Charlotte Deutsch (Reply 
Affidavit 
 1 31, plaintiffs' complaint alleges that plaintiffs 
The other cases upon which plaintiffs rely are. also. 
distinguishable from the instant case. 
13 [* 13 ]
"were ready and willing to purchase the Premises under the terms 
and conditions of the Sales 
Contract." Conspicuously absent is a 
statement that plaintiffs were "able" to purchase the building. 
This may have been due to an oversight or typographical error; 
then again, it may have been in recognition of the fact that the 
complaint was filed only nine months after Petezi Sack applied 
for in forma pauperis status in the then-pending landlord -tenant 
litigation. 
 Plaintiffs' friend's intangible, unspecific, 
unsubstantiated claim to be a multi-millionaire is insufficient 
to prolong this lawsuit. 
As plaintiffs have failed to raise an issue of fact as to 
whether they were "able" to exercise their alleged right of first 
refusal, they are not entitled to pursue their claims for 
recission and specific performance, injunctive relief, damages 
for breach of contract (there being no damages) or tortious 
interference with contract (there being no proximate cause or 
damages). Furthermore, it is obvious that plaintiffs will not be 
able to make out the "deceit or 
collusionN (or damages) necessary 
to establish a cause of action against Traub for violating 
Judiciary Law § 487. In particular, when Traub stated in open 
court in the fall of 2000 that he had no reason to believe that 
the Deutsches did not still own the property, they still did. 
14 [* 14 ]
Finall-y, although the Herbst defendants did not move or 
cross-move for summary judgment, "summary judgment searches the 
record," CE'LR 
3212(b), and it is clear that plaintiffs cannot 
make out a cause of action against them simply because they 
represented the Deutsches in the sale of the building. 
Thus, for the reasons set forth herein, the motions and 
cross-moticsn are granted, the complaint is dismissed with 
prejudice, and this Court hereby declares, pursuant to CPLR 3001 
and 3212, that plaintiffs' claim to a right of first refusal is 
void. 
This opinion constitutes the decision, order and judgment of 
the Court. 
Dated: 
 A J; / P , 2001 
J.S.C. 
15 [* 15 ]
