Premier Capital v Damon Realty Corp.
2001 NY Slip Op 30049(U)
November 28, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0103683/1996
Judge: Leland G. DeGrasse
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
0 I- 
W U U W 
LL W U 
>- 
3 
I- o W 
v) W U 
v) 
W n 
4 4 
lL 
e 
I 
2 0 
2 0 
0 
\ 
F W 0 
I c 
v) e PRESENT: 
 LELAND PART 
 '--L5 
INDEX NO. 
/43F 
MOTION DATE 9 ,/ 7 /o 
/ 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
 ' 
q/f 
MOTION CAL.NO. 1 1% 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion tolfor 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross -Motion: 
 6s 0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
Dated: 
J. S. C. 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT : STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK : I.A.S. PART 25 
PREMIER CAPITAL AS THE ASSIGNEE OF THE 
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AS 
RECEIVER FOR CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK OF 
NEW YORK, ..................... 
Plaintiff, -x 
Index No. : 
103683/96 
Cal. No.: 
119 of 9/7/01 
-against- 
DAMON REALTY CORP., MARIA PORTES, CARLOS 
P. PORTES, C.P. PORTES ASSOCIATES, INC. 
NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND 
FINANCE, NEW YORK CITY ENVIRONMENTAL 
CONTROL BOARD, et al. 
Defendants. 
DeGRASSE, J.: 
Defendant Damon Realty Corp. , ( 
I'DamonIl) and its 
president, defendant Carlos P. Portes ( 
llPortesl') move to reargue 
this court's decision dated March 5, 2001, which found that they 
were in contempt of this court's November 19, 1999 Order appointing 
a receiver and directing defendants to attorn rents to the 
receiver. This decision was embodied in a judgment dated June 11, 
2001. 
Plaintiff cross -moves against Damon and Portes for an 
order: 1) for sanctions, costs and 
attorneys' fees, 2) directing 
Damon's and Portes 
 I attorney Solomon Abrahams ( 
vvAbrahamsll) to 
return a $4000 fee he received from defendants allegedly paid out 
of rents misappropriated by defendants, 3) for contempt against 
Damon, Portes and Abrahams, and 4) for a warrant directing the 
Sheriff of the City of New York, or the Sheriff of any county of 
New York State, to arrest Port s for his failure to purge his 
contempt by attorning rents providing an accounting to the [* 2 ]
receiver, as directed by the June 11, 2001 judgment. This motion 
is joined by the receiver, who has submitted supporting papers. 
FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
The commercial building that is the subject of this 
action, located at 5037-5043 Broadway in Manhattan ("the 
building"), was occupied unt'il January of this year by Portes and 
several companies controlled by him. As a result of Damon's 
default on its mortgage payments, 
 Premier's predecessor in interest 
brought this foreclosure action in 1996. 
The current receiver was appointed by the November 1999 
Order pursuant to RPL 
S 
254(10), RPAPL 
 S 
1325(1), and CPLR 6401. 
any 
tenant(s) licensees, occupants or 
other 
person(s) in possession of such 
Premises attorn to said temporary 
receiver and pay over to said temporary 
receiver all rents, license fees, profits 
and other charges of such premises now 
due and unpaid, or that may hereafter 
become due; and that the defendants be 
enjoined and restrained from collecting 
the profits, rents and license fees and 
other charges for such Premises and from 
interfering in any manner with the 
property in the receiver's possession; ... and that all 
tenant(s), occupants, 
employees and licensees of the Premises 
and other 
person(s) liable for the rents 
be and hereby are enjoined from paying 
any rent, license fees, profits, or other 
charges for such Premises to the 
defendants, their agents, servants or 
attorneys ... . 
The November 1999 order further provides 
 that 
the 
receiver 'shall have the power to bring suit to collect rents or 
2 [* 3 ]
remove tenants "and employ counsel for that 
purpose." 
The receiver met and corresponded with Portes several 
times beginning in January 2000. However, after an initial payment 
of $6000, the mortgagor has never paid any rent for use and 
occupancy of the building. 
The receiver moved this court for an order setting the 
fair market use and occupancy of the premises. The court referred 
this motion to a referee to hear and report and by order dated 
August 11, 2000 confirmed the referee's findings that fair rent for 
the building was $16,666.66 per month, and that the fair rent for 
the parking places situated on the property was $1680 per month. 
Both of these rental figures were made retroactive to January 1, 
2000. 
Based on this order, the receiver retained counsel 
experienced in 
landlord/tenant matters to serve demands on Portes 
and his various companies. Counsel subsequently initiated 
nonpayment proceedings in Civil Court on September 29, 2000. 
These proceedings were delayed by Damon's bankruptcy 
filing on October 5, 2000. The receiver moved the Bankruptcy Court 
for an order lifting the automatic stay, which motion was granted 
on November 16, 2000. 
The nonpayment proceeding subsequently resumed and ended 
in a judgment of approximately $214,000 against Damon, Portes, C.P 
Portes Associates, and Maria Portes. The court also issued a 
warrant of possession in favor of the receiver. Portes and his 
various business entities were evicted from the premises in late 
3 [* 4 ]
January of this year. 
In the course of appearing in the bankruptcy proceeding 
the receiver discovered that Damon had claimed that it had received 
and retained rent from various tenants in the building. Damon's 
bankruptcy filings reflect that it received a total of $15,000 in 
rent from ten tenants for the month of October 2000. The filings 
reflect that all of these tenants took occupancy as of 
 ww10/2000.ww 
The receiver has submitted unrebutted evidence that Damon 
opened an account at North Fork Bank on October 5, 2000 -- the same 
day as its bankruptcy filing -- in which it deposited these alleged 
rent monies (the 
'INorth Fork 
Accountw1). Slightly less than $15,000 
total was deposited in the North Fork account in the months of 
October and November 2000. Defendants offer no explanation as to 
whether further rent was paid or what happened to the alleged 
tenants. All but approximately $550 of the rents were spent by 
defendants. Payments totaling $4000 were made to Abrahams from the 
account. 
The receiver moved for an order holding Portes and Damon 
in civil contempt for their failure to attorn this alleged rent. 
This motion was granted by this court's March 
 5th decision. 
In their current motion Damon and Portes make 
no 
attempt 
to establish the bona fides of 
the 
ten 
alleged month 
to month 
tenants who suddenly appeared and started paying rent in October 
2000, in conjunction with Damon's bankruptcy filing. Portes and 
Abrahams represented to this court in April 2000 that all the 
companies occupying the building were alter ego corporations of 
4 [* 5 ]
Portes, and that the building was difficult to rent to unrelated 
individual tenants because of its configuration. Abrahams and 
Portes made these sworn statements when the court was considering 
the receiver's application to set fair use and occupancy for the 
premises. 
Damon and Portes do not describe the identities of the 
alleged tenants, the circumstances under which they began their 
occupancy, whether the tenants signed leases or paid any security, 
or how they paid their rent. Defendants do not even allege whether 
the alleged tenants made their rental payments prior to Damon's 
bankruptcy filing on October 5, 2000. 
It appears likely that the rent-paying 
*'tenants1' who 
suddenly appeared in October 2000 in time for Damon's bankruptcy 
filing, and then mysteriously disappeared upon the lifting of the 
bankruptcy stay -- were in fact simply entities controlled by 
Portes. Accordingly, it is probable that the money deposited in to 
the North Fork bank account was Portesl money that he wished to 
shelter from the receiver. 
The Bankruptcy Court dismissed Damon's bankruptcy 
proceeding on May 31, 2001. 
DISCUSSION 
CPLR 2221 provides in relevant part that a motion to 
reargue ''shall be based upon matters of fact or law allegedly 
overlooked or misapprehended by the court." 
(See William P. Pahl 
Equipment Corp. v 
Kassis, 182 AD2d 22, 27, '& denied 80 NY2d 1005.) 
5 [* 6 ]
. .-- 
Defendants merely repeat the argument they made in 
opposition to the motion for contempt without offering anything 
further as to why the court's first take on this argument was 
incorrect. Defendants argue that upon the filing of Damon's 
Chapter 11 petition, Damon automatically became a debtor in 
possession authorized 
 "to collect the rents and out of such funds 
pay the operating expenses of the property. " It is remarkable that 
defendants cite no authority in support of this proposition. 
Once Premier successfully sought appointment of a 
receiver, its rights to the rents of the property vested. In such 
circumstances, the receiver -- not the debtor in bankruptcy -- 
continues to collect and act as custodian of rents. (See Flower 
City Nursina Home Inc. v Park Hope Nursina Home, Inc. 38 BR 642.) 
Even courts that have held that a debtor retains some right to 
rents have nonetheless held that it remains the receiver's right to 
collect and possess the rents. 
 (See In re Koula Enterprises Ltd., 
197 BR 753, 758 ["the effect of the appointment of the receiver 
was to terminate the Debtor's right to possession of rents, not to 
terminate its ownership prior to a judgment of foreclosure and 
subsequent 
 saleI1]. ) 
In their opposition to the contempt motion, defendants 
utterly failed to establish their right to collect and possess 
rents for the building. Their motion to reargue adds nothing to 
their previous failure to justify their contemptuous actions and is 
a complete waste of this court's time. 
The court finds that the motion is but the latest of a 
6 [* 7 ]
series of maneuvers by defendants and their counsel to avoid their 
obligations under this court's prior orders. These orders, the 
November 19, 1999 order appointing the receiver, the August 11, 
2000 order confirming the referee's findings that fair rent for the 
building was $16,666.66 per month, and the March 5, 2001 decision 
holding Portes and Damon in contempt, all direct defendants to 
attorn rents to the receiver. 
Defendants' behavior in consistently failing to do so has 
been frivolous as defined by 
S 
130-l.l(c) of the Rules of the Chief 
Administrator of the Courts. It satisfies each of the grounds set 
forth therein -- any one of which would justify the impositions of 
sanctions. Defendants' actions have been "completely without merit 
in law," they have been undertaken 
 "primarily to delay or prolong 
the resolution of the litigation " and their arguments include 
assertions of "material factual statements that are false.'' (22 
NYCRR 
S 
130-1.1[~][1]-[3]; 
 see Bell v State, 96 NY2d 811; Julian v 
Security Mut. Ins. Co., 281 AD2d 954.) 
The court finds that Abrahams, defendants' counsel, 
should be sanctioned because he participated in 
defendants' 
frivolous tactics -- and 
benefitted from 
them as well, as he was 
paid $4000 from the "rent" monies deposited in the North Fork 
account. He accepted these funds despite the explicit language of 
this court's November 1999 Order that barred any occupants 
 "or 
other 
person[s] liable for the rents" from paying the rents to 
defendants or their attorneys. 
Accordingly, Portes and Abrahams shall each pay plaintiff 
7 [* 8 ]
$5000 in sanctions (for a total of $10,000) in partial payment of 
plaintiff's costs and attorney fees incurred in enforcing this 
court's Orders of November 19, 1999, August 11, 2000 and March 5, 
2001. 
Premier also moves for further 
contempt 
 sanctions, 
 in 
particular for a warrant authorizing the arrest of Portes. The 
court declines to award this relief at this time. 
However, 
plaintiff may move for further contempt sanctions, including 
arrest, if Portes does not, by December 31, 2001, take the 
following actions: 1) pay the sanctions awarded herein, 
and 2) 
purge his contempt as specified in this court's decision of March 
5, 2001, by accounting to the receiver for all rents defendants 
collected at the building after January 1, 2000 and by attorning a 
sum equal to these rents to the receiver. 
CONCLUSION 
Defendants' motion to reargue is denied. 
 Plaintiff's 
motion for sanctions is granted against defendant Carlos Portes and 
Abrahams shall each pay plaintiff $5000 in sanctions (for a total 
of $10,000). In all other respects the motion is denied without 
prejudice to resubmission upon the conditions set forth above. 
This constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
DATE: 
NOV 28 
2001 J.S.C. 
a [* 9 ]
