Tinkel v Parkin
2001 NY Slip Op 30069(U)
October 15, 2001
Supreme Court, Kings County
Docket Number: 37156/98
Judge: Joseph J. Dowd
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.At an IAS Part 18 of the Supreme 
Court of the State of New York, held in and 
for the County of Kings, at the Courthouse, 
at Civic Center, Brooklyn, New York, on the 
1 Sh day of October, 200 1 
P RE S EN T: 
Plaintiff(s), 
-against- 
THOMAS PAm., ARLENE JASINSKI and 
AMERICAN BUSINESS CREDIT, INC., 
Notice o f MotiodOrder to Show Cause/ 
PetitiodCross Motion and 
Affidavits (Affirmations) Annexed 
Opposing Affidavits (Affirmations) 
Reply Aifidavits (Affirmations) 
Artidavit (Atlirmation) 
Other papers Index No. 37 156198 
PaDers Numbered 
1 
2 
3 
Upon the foregoing papers, plaintiff moves in limine for a directed verdict on her 
first cause of action for a judgment declaring that a deed dated September 10, 1996, conveying 
real property located at 5 19 61h Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (“the premises) from plaintiff [* 1]
. 
LYNN TINKEL to THOMAS PARKIN, is void as a matter of law as such deed is forged, and 
further declaring that a mortgage dated March 24, 1998, encumbering the premises is also void 
and that plaintiff LYNN TINKEL is the owner of the premises free of any liens or encumbrances, 
on the ground that the defendant is collaterally estopped on the issue of the fraudulent nature of 
the deed due to a finding of an Administrative Law Judge to the effect that such deed was forged. 
This action was commenced to obtain a judgment declaring that a deed conveying 
the premises at 5 19 6‘h Avenue, Brooklyn, New York, and a mortgage encumbering the premises 
are void as fraudulent, for an accounting of the rents and profits of the premises, and to recover - 
compensatory damages stemming from fraud and conspiracy of the defendants in creating and 
recording the forged deed. Defendant THOMAS PARKIN, formerly a real estate broker. is 
alleged to have forged Ms. TINKEL’s signature on a deed dated September 10. 1996. conveying 
the premises from plaintiff to himself and thereafter recording the deed in the Office of the 
Register of Kings County. Defendant ARLENE JASINKI is alleged to have fraudulentl? 
notarized Ms. TINKEL’s forged signature. Thereafter. in or about March 24. 1998. defendant 
AMERICAN BUSINESS CREDIT INC. gave a mortgage loan to defendant PARKIN which 
cncumbered the premises. 
This case came on for trial on March 2 1.200 1 and the matter was adjourned pending 
the determination in a CPLR article 78 proceeding seeking to annul as arbitrary and capricious a 
decision of the Secretary of State of the State of New York, Department of State, Division of 
Licensing Services, dated January 17,200 1, revoking and denying a real estate brokers license to 
defendant PARKIN. By Order of the Supreme Court, Albany County (Kane. J.), the respondent 
Secretary of State’s motion to dismiss the petition for failure to exhaust administrative remedies 
2 [* 2]
was granted and the petition was dismissed. Plaintiff now seeks a determination on her motion 
in limine for a directed verdict on her first cause of action for a judgment declaring the deed 
dated September 10, 1996, and the mortgage encumbering the premises are void as a matter of 
law on the ground that defendants are collaterally estopped from relitigating the issue that the 
deed is forged. 
The doctrine of collateral estoppel is invoked in a subsequent action to preclude a 
party from relitigating an issue decided against that party in an earlier action (see, Staatsburg 
Water Co. v Staatsburg - Fire Dist., 72 NY2d 147, 152; Kaufman v Eli Lillv & Co., 65 NY2d 449. 
455). It is well settled that the doctrine of collateral estoppel ‘’ [is] applicable to give conclusive 
effect to the quasi-judicial determinations of administrative agencies” (Rvan v New York Tel. - 
-I Co.. 62 NY2d 494,499; see, David v Biondo? 92 NY2d 3 18; Staatsburg Water Co. v Staatsburcr 
Fire Dist., supra). Two requirements must be met in order for collateral estoppel to be 
applicable. First, the identical issue must have been decided in the prior action and be decisive 
of the present action, and, second, the party to be precluded from relitigating an issue must have 
had a full and fair opportunity to contest the determination now said to be controlling (see, 
cilherc v Barhieri. 53 NY?d 285. 291: Schwxt7 v PiNic 4dm’r of C‘nuntu nf Rrnnv. 24 NY’d 
65, 71). 
However, the doctrine of collateral estoppel is not rigidly applied. With respect to 
the issue of whether the prior action or proceeding provided a full and fair opportunity to litigate 
the dispositive claim, such question “is not answered simply by reference to the procedural 
benefits available in the first forum or by a conclusion that the requirements of due process were 
satisfied [citation omitted]. Instead, the analysis requires consideration of ‘the realities of 
3 [* 3]
litigation’, such as recognition that if the first proceeding involved trivial stakes, it may not have 
been litigated vigorously [citation omitted]”. Moreover, if an issue has been determined but that 
determination is not essential to the judgment, relitigation is not precluded (see, D’Arata v New 
York Cent. Mut, Fire Lns. Ca, 76 NY2d 659; Giordano v Patel, 177 AD2d 468). 
Guided by these principles. the court finds that fundamental fairness dictates that 
defendants be afforded an opportunity to litigate their defense on the issue of fraud on the merits 
and that they not be collaterally estopped on this issue. Although the Administrative Law Judge 
held that the deed in question was forged. such determination was not necessarily central to the - 
determination. The question of forgery was not fully litigated in the administrative proceeding 
(e.g., by expert testimony as to the authenticity of the signature on the deed) because it appears 
that such claim may have been withdrawn before the hearing was conducted. At the very least. 
the record developed before the administrative agency is confusing in this regard. Consequently. 
the finding of the Administrative Law Judge that the deed was forged may be regarded to be an 
advisory opinion which should not be given preclusive effect in the present action. 
In addition. the stakes in the license revocation proceeding may be considered trivial 
compared to what is involved in this action for equitahle relief as well 3s to recnvc: 
compensatory damages. The defendants did not have the same opportunity to contest the issue of 
fraud in the administrative proceeding as they will have in this action, and, thus, they should have 
the opportunity to fully defend this action on the merits in a manner consistent with the 
magnitude of the potential liability (see generally, Staatsburg Water Co. v Staatsburg Fire Dist., 
72 NY2d 147, supra; Iossa v Marcone, 281 AD2d 235; Wender v Gilberg Agencv, 276 AD2d 
3 1 1). Given the fundamental substantive and procedural differences between the license 
4 [* 4]
. 
revocation hearing and the instant action, the court finds that the doctrine of collateral estoppel is 
inapplicable to this case. 
Accordingly, plaintiffs motion in limine for a directed verdict on the first cause of 
action alleged in the complaint seeking a declaratory judgment is denied. 
The foregoing shall constitute the decision and order of the court. 
I 
J: S. C. 
5 [* 5]
