Andutal v City of New York
2001 NY Slip Op 30077(U)
October 17, 2001
Sup Ct, NY County
Docket Number: 120487/2000
Judge: Joan A. Madden
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.w SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: 
 JOAN A. MADDEN 
*' %"stice PART 
A 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I 
I I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
I 
Replying Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Cross -Motion: 
 Ci Yes No 
n 
Check one: 
0 FINAL DISPOSITION J. S. C. Y 
NON-~NAL DISPOSITION [* 1]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 11 
______________________------_--------- X 
ANA CELIA ANDUTAL, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK and BANCO POPULAR, Index No. 
120487/2000 
Motion Sequence No. 
001 
Defendants. 
...................................... X 
JOAN A. MADDEN, J. : 
The defendant, the City of New York (hereafter, the "City"), 
moves, pursuant to CPLR 
3025(b), for leave to amend its answer to 
include the affirmative defense of noncompliance with General 
Municipal Law 5 50-h (hereafter, "GML 5 50-h"). If the court 
grants the City's motion for leave to amend its answer, the City 
further moves, pursuant to CPLR 3211, for an order dismissing the 
Complaint of the plaintiff, Ana Celia Andutal, on the ground that 
the plaintiff failed 
to comply with GML 5 50-h. 
Backqround 
On,,July 13, 1999, the plaintiff sustained physical injuries 
when she fell on a sidewalk in front of the defendant Banco 
Popular's building, which is located at 615 West 
 18lSt Street in 
Manhattan. The accident report and the hospital records indicate 
that the plaintiff has Alzheimer's disease. The accident report 
also shows that the plaintiff's home attendant, who was with the 
plaintiff when the accident occurred, gave a description of the 
1 [* 2]
accident to the authorities. 
The plaintiff duly filed a Notice of Claim with the 
Comptroller of the City of New York (hereafter, the 
“Comptroller”). Subsequently, the Comptroller demanded that, 
pursuant to GML § 
50-h(l), the plaintiff submit to an oral 
examination concerning her claim (hereafter, the “Hearing”). 
On December 8, 1999, the plaintiff appeared at the Hearing, 
escorted by her daughter and her home attendant. 
plaintiff’s testimony was taken, the plaintiff’s attorney 
conferred, off the record, with the plaintiff and her escorts 
concerning the plaintiff’s mental state. 
discussion, the plaintiff‘s attorney testified that “it had been 
brought to [his] attention that the [plaintiff] suffers from 
Alzheimer’s 
 disease,” and that he had observed that the plaintiff 
did not “seem to understand 
 the nature of 
what 
is going on, 
the 
significance of this hearing or further information concerning Before the-’ 
Following this 
this hearing.“ See, Exh E to City‘s Notice of Motion, Hearing 
Transcript, 12/08/1999, at 3. Due to her mental condition, the 
plaintiff’s attorney did not allow the plaintiff to be orally 
examined, because her testimony would not be “pertinent” or 
“assured of being 
[flactual or of any relevance to this matter.” 
Id. at 3-4. 
In response, the City’s attorney expressly reserved the 
right to raise the plaintiff’s noncompliance with GML 5 50-h as a 
2 [* 3]
defense to the plaintiff‘s claim. The City did not contest the 
plaintiff’s attorney’s assessment of his client’s mental state, 
Thereafter, on or about October 2, 2000, the plaintiff 
filed this action. The City’s Answer, which was filed on October 
10, 2000, failed to include the affirmative defense of 
noncompliance with GML § 50-h. 
In April 2001, the City made this motion to amend its . 
-, 
complaint to add an affirmative defense of plaintiff’s 
noncompliance with GML § 50-h, and to dismiss the complaint on 
this ground. 
denied, in the interest of justice, because the plaintiff made a Plaintiff counters that the City’s motion should be 
good faith effort to comply with the requirements of GML 5 50-h, 
but was unable to testify due to her mental deterioration. 
Discussion 
The purpose of an initial hearing, pursuant to GML 5 50-h, 
is to allow a municipality an opportunity to “investigate the 
circumstances surrounding the accident and explore the merits of 
claim, ... with a view towards settlement.” See, Alouette 
e 
Fashions, Inc. v Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, 119 AD2d 
481, 487 (lst Dept 1986) affd 69 NY2d 786 (1987). Pursuant to 
GML § 
50-h(l), a municipality is entitled to orally examine the 
claimant before litigation commences. At the hearing, the 
claimant is put under oath, and the claimant’s testimony is 
3 [* 4]
taken. See, GML § 
50-h(3). The transcript of the claimant’s 
testimony may be read in evidence at trial. See, GML § 50-h(4). 
Generally, a claimant may not commence an action against a 
municipality until the claimant has complied with the demand for 
an examination. See, GML § 
50-h(5). However, if a plaintiff is 
unable, due to severe physical or mental disabilities, to testify 
at such a hearing, the hearing requirement may be waived, and the 
plaintiff may proceed with the action. See, Twitty v City of New 
York, 195 AD2d 354, 355 (lst Dept 1993); Hur v City of -_ 
Poughkeepsie, 71 AD2d 1014 (2d Dept 1979) (a claimant who is 
psychologically unable to undergo an oral examination, pursuant 
to GML § 50-h, will not be “required to perform the impossible” 
in order to institute and maintain her action). 
The medical records and the hearing transcript indicate that 
the plaintiff is suffering from Alzheimer‘s disease. These 
records raise an issue as to whether the plaintiff’s medical 
condition is so severe that the oral examination, pursuant to GML 
§ 
50(h!(l), should be waived, 
 because.the plaintiff would be 
unable to reasonably and accurately relate the information that 
is sought by the City. 
The City, relying on Matter of Dickey v City of New York, 
(167 AD2d 238 [lst Dept 1990]), argues that the court may not 
compel the City to waive the hearing, because the Statute of 
Limitations has run. However, that case is inapposite, because 
4 [* 5]
the First Department held that the petitioners could maintain 
their action, even though the Statute of Limitations had run, if 
the trial court waived the hearing requirement. However, the 
First Department held that the trial court had properly exercised 
its “discretion” in refusing to compel the City to waive its 
right to a hearing, since the petitioners had adjourned four 
previously scheduled hearings, and had failed to appear for the 
fifth scheduled hearing. See, id. at 239. 
Unlike the situation in Dickey, there is no evidence that 
the plaintiff knowingly and intentionally sought to evade the 
hearing requirement, and the City made no effort to refute the 
allegation that the plaintiff was unable to testify due to the 
alleged severity of her brain disease. 
The courts of this State have been charged with a duty to 
protect litigants that are “’actually incompetent, but not yet 
judicially declared as such. ”’ Shad v Shad, 167 AD2d 532, 533 
(2d Dept 1990) quoting Sengstack v Sengstack, 4 NY2d 502, 509 
(1958); see also, Bryant v Riddle, 259 AD2d 399 
(1’‘ Dept 1999); 
Palaganas v D.R.C. Industries, Inc., 64 AD2d 594 (lst Dept 1978). 
Granting the City’s motion, without considering whether waiver of 
the hearing requirement would be appropriate under these 
circumstances, would constitute a violation of this court‘s duty 
to protect such litigants. 
Accordingly, the City’s motion for leave to amend their 
5 [* 6]
Answer, and upon granting such leave, to dismiss the Complaint, 
shall be denied, without prejudice. In addition, the court will 
order that a hear'ing be conducted to determine whether the 
plaintiff is incapable of undergoing an oral examination, 
pursuant to GML § 50-h, to determine if the hearing requirement 
should be waived. p/"c 
n 
The plaintiff's alleged mental disability raises another 
issue which the court must address. "CPLR 1201 mandates thal an 
adult incapable of adequately prosecuting or defending his or her 
rights shall appear [in the action] by his or her guardian ad 
litem." Brewster v John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co., 280 AD2d 300 
(Ist Dept 2001). Moreover, "once it [is] made aware of 
plaintiff's condition, the Supreme Court should ... act[] on its 
own initiative pursuant to CPLR 1202(a) and appoint[] a guardian 
ad litem to protect 
 plaintiff's interests. " Id. 
Therefore, the court shall also determine, at the hearing to 
determine whether the hearing requirement in GML § 50-h shall be 
waived, whether a guardian ad litem should be appointed to 
protect the plaintiff's interests in this action. Shad v Shad, " 
supra, 167 AD2d, at 533 ("where there is a question of fact as to 
whether a guardian ad litem should be appointed, a hearing must 
be conducted "). 
Conclusion 
Accordingly, it is 
6 [* 7]
for an order granting the defendant leave to amend its Answer, 
and upon the granting of that order, for an order dismissing the 
Complaint, is denied without prejudice; and it is further 
ORDERED that a hearing shall be held on November 15, 2001, 
at Part 11, in Room 351, 60 Centre Street, New York, NY, at 3:OO 
p-m., for the purpose of determining whether the plaintiff Ana 
Celia Andutal suffers from a physical or mental impairment, Yo 
such a degree that she is incapable of giving reasonably accurate 
responses in an oral examination, pursuant to General Municipal 
Law § 50-h, and also for the purpose of determining whether the 
plaintiff is incapable of prosecuting or defending her interests 
in this action, to such a degree that it would be appropriate for 
the court to appoint a guardian ad litem, pursuant to CPLR 1201, 
to protect the plaintiff’s interests in this action; and it is 
further 
ORDERED that the parties to this action are directed to 
appear at such hearing, and to present any pertinent evidence or 
documentation or testimony that is relevant to said proceedings. 4 
Dated: October (7,2001 Enter: 
,p 
J.S.C. 
7 [* 8]
