City of New York v Nadler
2001 NY Slip Op 30059(U)
September 5, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 404304/00
Judge: Martin Shulman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF h’EW YORK - KE\V YORK 
 COLWTY 
PRESENT:Hon. MARTIN SHUL MAN ,Justice PART 
1 
443d 
00 Plaintiff, L\DEX SO. 
- v- 
Sfolio0 sq. 
DECISIOS/ORDER I 
Defendant. 
The following papers were read on this motion 
XOTICE OF 
hlOTION-AFFIDAVITS-EXHIBITS 
AXSWERING AFFIDAVITS - EXHIBITS 
REPLYLVG AFFIDAVITS 
CROSS - hlOTION: so 
daI Disposition n. Martin Shulman, J.S.C. 
>,/N 
Non-Find Disposition [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW 
 YON: IAS PART 1 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK, X ................................................................... 
Plaintiff, 
- against - Index No.: 404304/00 
DECISION, ORDER and 
JUDGMENT 
 - 
FRED NADLER, DAVID HAYIM, and 
Property Seized and Vouchered under Police 
Property Clerk Invoice No. K467288 
Plaintiff, 
Index No.: 401346/01 
-against - 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK, POLICE DEPARTMENT 
OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, DEPARTMENT OF 
FINANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL 
BOARD OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 
In this civil forfeiture action, the City of New York (“City”) seeks to retain custody of 
Food Vending Cart No. 52824 (“cart”). The cart was seized pursuant to N.Y.C. Admin. Code 
tj 
17-321(c), as a result of the issuance of a Notice of Violation ( “NOV”) by N.Y.C. Police 
Officer Noriega to defendant Fred Nadler (“Nadler”). The NOV accused Nadler of selling coffee 
from the cart without the required N.Y.C. Department of Health (‘‘DOH”) license in violation of 
1 [* 2 ]
N.Y.C. Admin. Code 3 
17-307(a). David Hayim (“Hayim”) is the purported owner of the cart. 
By stipulation dated April 14,2001, Action No. 2 was consolidated with Action No. 1 and the 
papers submitted to this Court were deemed to be 
Ha$m’s motion for summary judgement on 
his demand for the return of the seized cart and the City’s cross-motion for summary judgment in 
its favor. The motion and cross-motion are consolidated for 
disoosition herein. 
The NOV on which the seizure was based (annexed to April 27,2001 , Holden Aff.) and 
which serves as the predicate for this forfeiture action states: 
Respondent [Fred Nadler] observed selling coffee from 
cart # 5284 w/o a Health Dept. License. Respondent 
was observed selling in cart w/2 other males without 
any Health Dept. Licenses. 
The City has submitted the decision of Environmental Control Board (“ECB”) 
Administrative Law Judge Richard Roberts, dated September 28,2000, (Exh. C to April 10, 
2001, Holden Aff.) which found Nadler in violation of N.Y.C. Admin Code 
 0 17-307 (a). 
In relevant part, N.Y.C. Admin Code 
 3 17-307 states: 
(a)( 1) It shall be unlawful for any individual to act as a food 
vendor without having first obtained a license therefor from 
the commissioner in accordance with the provisions of this 
subchapter. 
(b)( 1) It shall be unlawful to vend food from any vehicle or 
pushcart in a public space without having first obtained a 
permit for such vehicle or pushcart from the commissioner 
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.. 
N.Y.C. Admin. Code 
 3 17-321 details the enforcement provisions relating to food 
vendors and, in relevant part, states: 
(a) Public health sanitarians or other authorized officers or 
2 [* 3 ]
employees of the department and police officers shall have 
the power to enforce all laws, rules and regulations relating 
to food vendors .... 
(c) an officer or employee designated in subdivision a of this 
section may seize any vehicle or pushcart which (i) does not 
have a permit or. . . (iii) is being used by an unlicensed vendor, 
and may seize any food sold or offered for sale from such vehicle 
or pushcart. Such vehicle, pushcart or food shall be subject to 
forfeiture as provided in section 17-322 of this subchapter. ... 
N.Y.C. Admin. Code 817-322 sets forth a forfeiture provision which, inter alia, states: 
(a) In addition to any penalties imposed pursuant to subdivision a 
of section 17-325 of this subchapter upon any person found 
guilty of violating subdivision a, b or c of section 17-307 
of this subchapter, all property seized pursuant to this subchapter 
shall be subject to forfeiture upon notice and judicial determination. 
Notice of the institution of the forfeiture proceeding shall be in 
accordance with the provisions of the civil practice law and rules. 
In the instant matter there is no dispute that on the date the NOV was issued, Hayim 
possessed a valid Health Department license that allowed him to vend food from the seized cart. 
There is also no dispute that at the time that Noreiega approached the cart and asked to see a 
food vendor’s license that Hayim was not present at the cart but had to be called from a deli 
Hayim and Nadler co-owned and located across the street. It is Hayim’s contention that he left 
the cart for a few minutes to use the restroom and asked Nadler to safeguard the cart and did not 
give the latter any specific instructions to sell food during his absence. At the ECB hearing, 
Nadler corroborated his partner’s version of the facts, 
 Le., that Hayim was at the cart 95% of the 
time but on occasion had to go to the deli. 
Hayim has submitted documents that disclose that he paid $20,000.00 to purchase the cart 
and $1649.00 for improvements to the cart. (Exh. E to Holden Aff.) 
3 [* 4 ]
The City asserts that the forfeiture of the cart does not warrant analysis pursuant to the 
excessive fines clause of the Eighth Amendment because: (1) the instant matter involves an in 
rem forfeiture; (2) the Administrative Code provisions under which forfeiture is sought do not 
include an innocent owner defense; (3) the forfeiture is not conditioned upon a conviction or a 
finding of guilt; and (4) the forfeiture of the cart serves important non-punitive and remedial 
governmental interests. The City further posits that even if the instant forfeiture proceeding is 
subject to excessive fines analysis, nonetheless, the forfeiture of the cart is not excessive when 
compared to the governmental interest in promoting public health, safety and welfare or when 
compared to other court sanctioned forfeitures. 
The theory underlying an in rem forfeiture proceeding is the legal fiction that the action is 
directed against “guilty property” rather than against the offender . United States v. Baiakian, 
524 U.S. 321,330 (1 998). Traditionally, such proceedings were thought to be non-punitive. 
However as the Baiakian Court noted, the traditional distinction between in rem and inpersonam 
forfeiture has blurred and “. . . a modem statutory forfeiture is a ‘fine’ for Eighth Amendment 
purposes if it constitutes punishment even in part, regardless of whether the proceeding is styled 
in rem or in personam”. 
Id. at 33 1. See also, United States v.HalDer, 490 U.S. 435,448 (1989) 
(“A civil sanction that can not be said to solely serve a remedial purpose, but rather can only be 
explained as also serving either retributive or deterrent purposes, is punishment, as we have come 
to understand the term.”); Austin v. United States 509 U.S. 602 (1993); Grinberg v. Safir, 181 
Misc.2d 444,458 (Sup. Ct., N.Y. Co., 1999), affd. 266 A.D.2d 43 (lst Dept., 
 1999),~. den. 95 
N.Y.2d 756 (2000) (“[ilf a civil forfeiture contains a punitive element, it is deemed a fine under 
the Eighth Amendment despite its remedial purpose and must be analyzed for excessiveness”). 
4 [* 5 ]
The absence of an innocent owner defense or the requirement that there be a finding of guilt 
preceding forfeiture is not dispositive in determining in whether the proposed forfeiture is 
punitive. 
United States v. Baiakian, 524 U.S. 321 (1998) arose from the respondent 
 Bajakian’s 
(“Bajakian”) attempt to board an international flight without reporting that he was carrying 
$357,144.00 in U.S. currency in violation of 31 U.S.C. 
 9 5316 (a) (1) (A) (which requires the 
reporting of any attempt to transport currency in excess of $10,000.00 from the United States). 
Bajakian pleaded guilty and at the forfeiture proceeding the government argued that the forfeiture 
of currency under the statute served important remedial purposes because the government has an 
overriding interest in controlling what property enters and exits the country and that full 
forfeiture of unreported currency serves to deter the transfer of unreported currency and provides 
valuable investigatory information. 
 Id. at 329. In addressing these arguments, the Court noted 
that, 
 “[dleterrence, however, has traditionally been viewed as a goal of punishment, and 
forfeiture of the currency here does not serve the remedial purpose of compensating the 
Government for a loss. See Black’s Law Dictionary 1293 
 (6‘h ed. 1990) (“Remedial action” is 
one brought to obtain compensation or indemnity).” u. at 329. 
In the instant matter, the cart itself had the proper license and it was lawful for Hayim 
individually to vend food from it. The violation resulted from an unlicensed person vending food 
when Hayim was briefly away from the cart. There is no evidence that either Hayim or Nadler 
caused any actual harm. Aside from the license issue, there is no allegation that there was any 
unlawful activity afoot that would warrant forfeiture. In seeking forfeiture, the City places the 
entire societal burden of unregulated food vendors on Hayim and Nadler’s shoulders rather than 
5 [* 6 ]
addressing the particular harm caused in this instance. There is absolutely no correlation 
between the value of the cart the City seeks to forfeit and either the harm caused to society or the 
cost of enforcing these provisions of the N.Y.C. Administrative Code. Under these 
circumstance, forfeiture of the cart can only be characterized as punitive. 
In Baiakian, the Supreme Court noted that the 
“[t]ouchstone of the constitutional inquiry 
under the Excessive Fines Clause is the principle of proportionality: The amount of the forfeiture 
must bear some relationship to the gravity of the offense that it is designed to punish.” Baiakian 
at 334. Clearly the forfeiture of a cart, valued in excess of $20,000.00, as the penalty for selling a 
cup of coffee without a food vendor’s license is entirely disproportional. Significantly the instant 
forfeiture action arises out of a violation of the N.Y.C. Administrative Code and not a purported 
violation of a penal law. Any attempt to compare forfeiture of the cart with other court - 
sanctioned forfeitures arising from serious criminal charges is simply misplaced. There is no 
comparison between the alleged harm caused in the instant matter as compared to the alleged 
harm caused by intoxicated drivers and drug dealers. 
In Attorney General of the State of New York v. One Green 1993 Four Door Chrvsler et 
- al., 217 A.D.2d 342 
(3fd Dept., 1996), the court, in analyzing excessiveness, adopted a multi - 
factor test utilized in United States v. Milbrand, 58 F.3d 841 
(2nd Cir., 1995). The Milbrand 
Court listed three factors to be considered: “(1) the harshness of the forfeiture (e.g., the nature 
and value of the property and the effect of forfeiture on innocent third parties) in comparison to 
(a) the gravity of the offense, and (b) the sentence that could be imposed on the perpetrator of 
such an offense; (2) the relationship between the property and the offense, including whether use 
of the property in the offense was (a) important to the success of the illegal activity, (b) deliberate 
6 [* 7 ]
and planned or merely incidental and fortuitous, and (c) temporally or spatially extensive; and (3) 
the role and degree of culpability of the owner of the property. " In the instant matter, a 
consideration of the above factors clearly warrants a finding against forfeiture. 
Accordingly, it is hereby Ordered that David Hayim's motion for summary judgment in 
his favor and the issuance of an Order directing the return of the seized cart be granted and the 
City's cross -motion for summary judgment in its favor be denied; and it is further 
ORDERED and ADJUDGED that the City is directed to return the subject cart within 
twenty (20) days of the service of this Order with notice of entry without the imposition of any 
costs, fees or disbursements. 
The foregoing constitutes the Decision, Order and Judgement of this Court. Courtesy 
copies have been sent to counsel for all parties. 
New York, New York 
Dated: September 5,2001 
7 [* 8 ]
