Matter of Bey v New York City Civil Service
Commission
2001 NY Slip Op 30058(U)
December 17, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 102551/01
Judge: Joan A. Madden
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: HON. JOAN A. MADDEN 
Justice 
Plaintiffs, 
-v- 
PARTa 
INDEX NO. 
/02557#/ 
MOTION DATE: 
MOTION SEQ. NO.: 
. MOTION CAL. NO.: 
Defendants. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion tolfor 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits PAPERS NUMBERED 
Cross -Motion: 
 @s [ ] No 
Upon the foregoing 
Dated: 
lk1110 f 
I I J.S.C. 
Check one: 3 FINAL DISPOSITION 
 ~?~ON-FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 11 
_______________________--__---__-_--_-- X 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PEDRO RIVERA BEY, OBA HASSAN WATT BEY, Index No. 
102551/01 
EDWARD EBANKS, HERBERT L. HINNANT, and 
MICHAEL NICHOLS, 
Petitioners, 
For a Judgment Pursuant to Article 78 
of the Civil Practice Law and Rules 
- against - 
NEW YORK CITY CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION, 
NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION, 
BERNARD KERIK, as Commissioner of 
Correction, and the CITY OF NEW YORK, 
JOAN A. MADDEN, J. : 
In this Article 78 proceeding, petitioners seek an order: 1) 
vacating and setting aside the determinations of respondent New 
York City Civil Service Commission (the “Commission”) which 
affirmed the termination of their employment; 2) vacating and 2 
setting aside the determinations of respondent New York City 
Department of Correction (the “Correction Department” ) which 
terminated petitioners’ employment based upon a finding that they 
were guilty of misconduct; and 3) reinstating petitioners to 
their former positions with full back pay and benefits, plus 
interest. 
In response to the petition, respondents cross-move for an 
order pursuant to CPLR 3211(a) (5) and 3211(a) (7) : 1) dismissing 
1 [* 2 ]
the petition as against respondents Correction Department and 
Commissioner Bernard Kerik, as untimely and as barred 
by'Civil 
Service Law 
§76(1),(3); and 2) dismissing the petition as against 
respondent Commission, for failure to state a cause of action. 
In the event the cross-motion is denied, respondents reserve 
their right to serve an answer to the petition. 
Backqround 
Petitioners Pedro Rivera Bey, Oba Hassan Wat Bey, Edward 
Ebanks, Herbert L. Hinnant, and Michael Nichols are all former 
tenured Correction Department officers, who identify themselves 
as "Black and of Moorish national origin." The petition asserts 
that '[alt all times relevant hereto the petitioners had a good 
faith belief that they were exempt from federal and state taxes." 
As explained in the ALJ's report and recommendation, petitioners 
are affiliated with the Moorish Science Temple of America, which 
teaches that Moors are prohibited from paying taxes on the theory 
that they are not full citizens of the "corporate " United States. 
Pursuant to these beliefs, petitioners filed Federal and New York 
State tax forms, claiming exemptions from income tax 
withholdings. Some also filed IRS forms for nonresident aliens, 
or self-made forms, entitled "Certificates of Foreign Status for 
Moorish Americans ." 
Petitioners allege that in 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998, 
numerous New York City employees, including many employed by the 
2 [* 3 ]
Correction Department, submitted withholding documents stating 
that they were exempt from taxes. 
investigation to determine which employees were claiming tax- 
exempt status or an excessive number of exemptions. 
City employees were identified, including petitioners. 
The petition alleges that on or about December 3, 1997, The City conducted an. 
About 1,400 
petitioners and other Moorish correction officers were suspended 
for thirty days without pay, pending disciplinary charges. On or 
about April 3, 1998, the Correction Department served 
disciplinary charges alleging that the employees engaged in 
conduct unbecoming an officer by: 1) knowingly submitting Federal 
and State tax forms falsely claiming exemption from taxation; 2) 
submitting false tax information with the intent to defraud the 
State of New York; and 3) violating their oaths of office by 
submitting documents disclaiming their United States citizenship. 
The charges also inaluded allegations of criminal violations of 
federal and New York state laws, but petitioners concede that no 
criminal charges were brought against them. 
The disciplinary charges were referred to the City of New 
York Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings ("OATH") for a 
hearing, pursuant to Civil Service Law S75. The cases against 17 
Correction Department employees, including petitioners, were 
consolidated and heard jointly over four days in July and August 
1998. Fourteen employees appeared pro se, three defaulted and 
3 [* 4 ]
twelve testified on their own behalf. 
presented the testimony of three witnesses. The Correction Department 
On November 30, 1998, the ALJ issued a 21-page report and 
recommendation, finding that the Correction Department had 
sustained its burden of proof with respect to four of the five 
charges,’ and recommended termination. 
there was “no credible evidence to support respondents‘ 
assertions that they are entitled to the exemption they claim. 
Respondents‘ beliefs, as sincere as they may be, do not present 
colorable legal claims.” 
precedents directly on point, the ALJ rejected as without merit, 
the employees‘ assertions that the tax system is voluntary, and 
that Moors are exempt from taxation by virtue of their ethnicity 
or nationality. 
jurisdiction to rule on respondents‘ claim of selective The ALJ determined that 
4 
Citing numerous federal legal 
The ALJ further noted that “this tribunal has no 
prosecution .” 
 = 
The Commissioner of the Corrections Department subsequently 
approved the ALJ‘s recommendation, and on December 18, 1998, 
petitioners‘ employment was terminated. 
‘The ALJ determined that it “was clear from their 
[the 
employees’] testimony that it was not their intent to “disclaim” 
their United States citizenship, and recommended dismissal of 
specification 5, which charged the employees with violating their 
oaths of office by submitting documents disclaiming United States 
citizenship. 
4 [* 5 ]
On or about March 16, 2000, petitioners exercised their 
option to appeal to the Civil Service Commission, pursuant to 
Civil Service Law S76. By decisions dated October 3, 2000, the 
Commission affirmed the Correction Department's determinations. 
The concurring opinion notes that "the issue of selective 
prosecution raised by appellants may warrant further review in a 
court of law." 
On or about February 2, 2001, petitioners commenced this 
Article 78 proceeding seeking review of the determinations by 
both the Commission and the Correction Department. 
The petition alleges that "[tlhe charges, the hearing 
procedures and the discharge of the Petitioners violated their 
statutory and constitutional rights." Specifically, the petition 
alleges, inter alia, that: 1) employees who were not Moorish- 
Americans and who engaged in the same or similar misconduct, were 
permitted to 
change=their W-4s and were not discharged; 2) 
disciplinary charges were brought against few, if any, employees 
who were not charged criminally; 3) the ALJ refused to permit 
petitioners to elicit evidence relating to their claim of 
selective prosecution; 4) the ALJ refused to consider mitigation 
of penalty, and the penalty imposed was disproportionate to the 
misconduct; 5) the record failed to establish that petitioners 
were guilty of the alleged misconduct; and 6) petitioners did not 
5 [* 6 ]
have reasonable notice that their misconduct could lead to 
disciplinary action. 
Respondents’ Cross-Motion to Dismiss the Petition 
On a pre-answer motion to dismiss an Article 78 petition 
pursuant to CPLR 
7804(f), only the petition is to be considered, 
and the allegations in the petition are to be deemed true and are 
considered in the light most favorable to petitioner. 
v. Town of Fishkill, 209 AD2d 850 
(3rd Dept 1994); DePaoli v. 
Board of Education, 92 AD2d 894 
(2nd Dept 1983). Parisella 
That portion of the cross-motion to dismiss the petition as 
to respondents Correction Department and Commissioner Bernard 
Kerik, is granted. As petitioners opted to pursue administrative 
appeals of the determinations of the Correction Department to the 
Civil Service Commission, this Article 78 proceeding as asserted 
against the Correction Department and its officer, Bernard Kerik, 
is barred by Civil Service Law 576. 
Transit Authoritv, 252 AD2d 558 
(2nd Dept 1998) [citing Civil 
Service Law §76(1), (3) ; Matter of Wood v. 
Cosqrove, 237 AD2d 616 
(2nd Dept 1997) ] .’ Turner v. New York Citv 
That portion of the cross-motion to dismiss the petition for 
failure to state a cause of action against respondent Commission, 
is granted in part and denied in part. 
21n view of this determination, the Court need not reach 
the 
based Correction Department‘s alternative grounds for dismissal, 
upon the statute of limitations. 
6 [* 7 ]
Where as here, an employee chooses to appeal a determination 
to the Civil Service Commission pursuant to Civil Service Law 
576, judicial review pursuant to Article 78 is proscribed by 
statute and "extremely narrow,'' limited to whether the Commission 
or the agency "acted in excess of its authority or in violation 
of the Constitution or of the laws of this State." In the Matter 
of New York Citv Department of Environmental Protection v. New 
York Citv Civil Service Commission, 78 NY2d 318, 322-324; 
 see 
also Turner v. New York Citv Transit Authoritv, supra; Mancuso v. 
Levitt, 210 AD2d 386 (lst Dept), app dism 83 NY2d 952, lv app den 
84 NY2d 810 (1994); Matter of Lemoine v. New York Citv Transit 
Authority, 227 AD2d 403 
(2nd Dept 2996); In the Matter of Saini 
v. Citv Civil Service Commission, 186 AD2d 436 (lst Dept 1992); 
Matter of Griffin v. New York Citv Department of Correction, 179 
AD2d 585 (lst Dept 1992). Judicial review of substantive 
matters is precluded and neither the merits nor the penalty is 
reviewable. In the Matter of New York Citv Department of 
Environmental Protection v. New York Citv Civil Service 
Commission supra at 321-322; Mancuso v. Levitt, supra at 388; 
Matter of Griffin v. New York Citv 
 DeDartment of Correction, 
supra. 
Applying this standard and taking the allegations in the 
petition as true, the petition is sufficient to raise only one 
7 [* 8 ]
issue subject to judicial review in this Article 78 proceeding -- 
the constitutional claim of selective prosecution. 
In a claim of selective prosecution, “[tlhe underlying right 
asserted by 
petitioner[s] is to equal protection of the laws as 
guaranteed by the 
14th Amendment and the New York State 
Constitution . . . [which] forbids a public authority from 
applying or enforcing an admitted valid law ‘with an evil eye and 
an unequal hand, so as practically to make unjust and illegal 
discriminations between persons in similar circumstances.”’ 
Matter of 303 West 
42”d Street Corp. v. Klein, 46 NY2d 686, 693 
(1979) (quoting Yick Wo v. 
Hopkins, 118 US 356, 373-374). “To 
invoke the right successfully, both the ‘unequal hand’ and the 
’evil eye’ requirements must be proven - to wit, there must be 
not only a showing that the law was not applied to others 
similarly situated but also that the selective application of the 
law was deliberately based upon an impermissible standard such as 
race, 
religion or some other arbitrary classification.” 
 Id. 
Here, the petition on its face contains sufficient 
allegations to withstand respondents’ pre-answer motion to 
dismiss the claim of selective prosecution. The petition 
essentially alleges that petitioners were singled out based upon 
their race, religion and/or national origin, because the 
Correction Department and other City agencies permitted “other 
employees‘’ who were not “Moorish American” to change their 
8 [* 9 ]
withholding forms, and no disciplinary charges were filed against 
them and they were not discharged. 
alleges that respondents "brought disciplinary charges relating 
to the filing of withholding forms against few if any employees 
who were not charged criminally " and that 
"[elmployees who are 
not Moorish-American were not discharged, although the 
respondents . . . were aware that they had engaged in the same or 
similar conduct." Take as true, these 
allegations are 
sufficient 
to state a cause of action for impermissible discriminatory 
prosecution, and respondents' motion to dismiss is denied as to Specifically the petition 
that claim. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing determination, petitioners 
will not be entitled to an evidentiary hearing unless they make 
"a strong showing of selective enforcement, invidiously 
motivated. " 
- Id at 693. Petitioners must satisfy a weighty 
burden and 
overcome4he presumption that the enforcement of laws 
is undertaken in good faith and without discrimination. 
 Id at 
694. "To establish enough of a case to trigger an evidentiary 
hearing as of right, a petitioner must show on the strength of 
sworn affidavits and other proof supplying factual detail, 
he is more likely than not to succeed on the merits." 
Id at 695- 
696. that 
Turning to the other issues raised in the petition, judicial 
review is precluded, as they are all addressed to the merits of 
9 [* 10 ]
the underlying determination and the penalty imposed. In the 
Matter of New York Citv Department of Environmental Protection v. 
New York Citv Civil Service Commission, supra; Mancuso v. Levitt, 
supra at 388; Matter of Griffin v. New York Citv Department of 
Correction, supra. 
Thus, that portion of the motion to dismiss the petition as 
to respondent Commission is granted to the extent of dismissing 
all but the selective prosecution claim. 
Finally, the Court must address 
 petitioners' objections to 
the ALJ's refusal to permit them to elicit evidence at the 
hearing to support their claim of selective prosecution. 
correctly concluded that "this tribunal has no jurisdiction to 
rule on 
respondents' claim of selective 
 prosecutionrN which as 
noted by the Commission's concurring decision, is a matter for 
the Court. 
 See Matter of Dozier v. New York Citv, 
135 
 (2nd Dept 1987).' While a 
upon" factual issues reviewable at the administrative level 
should initially be addressed to the administrative agency so 
that a necessary factual record can be established, here, the 
facts underlying the constitutional claim of selective 
prosecution are separate and apart from the disciplinary charges 
determined at the administrative level. 
Id at 134-135; see also 
Matter of Schulz v. State of New York, 86 NY2d 225, 232 (1995). 
Now that petitioners have properly asserted their constitutional The ALJ 
130 AD2d 128, 
constitutional claim that "hinges 
10 [* 11 ]
claim of selective prosecution in the context of this Article 78 
proceeding, once issue is joined, they may seek leave 
of’Court 
pursuant to CPLR 408 to conduct discovery as to that claim. 
Accordingly, it is hereby 
ORDERED that the portion of the cross-motion to dismiss the 
petition as to respondents New York City Department of Correction 
and Bernard Kerik is granted and the petition is dismissed as to 
said respondents; and it is further 
ORDERED that the portion of the cross-motion to dismiss the 
petition as to respondent New York City Civil Service Commission, 
is granted only to the extent of severing and dismissing all 
claims as asserted against said respondent, with the exception of 
the selective prosecution claim; and it is further 
ORDERED the portion of the cross-motion to dismiss the 
petition as to respondent New York City Civil Service Commission, 
is denied as to 
peti-tioners‘ claim of selective prosecution, and 
the balance of this proceeding shall continue with respect to 
said claim; and it is further 
ORDERED that pursuant to CPLR 
7804(d), respondents New York 
City Civil Service Commission and The City of New York shall 
serve and file an answer within 15 days of service of a copy of 
this order with notice of entry; thereafter, petitioner may serve 
and file a reply within 10 days of service of the answer; and it 
is further 
11 [* 12 ]
ORDERED that the parties are directed to appear for a 
conference on February 14, 2002, 
at 9:30 
a.m. 
w 
DATED: December 
0 , 2001 ENTER: 
7 J.S.C. 
12 [* 13 ]
