Stanley & Sons, Inc. v Wells Fargo Alarm Services,
Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30057(U)
December 31, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 124149/97
Judge: Marcy S. Friedman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.. 
0 
I- I n 
W K K 
W L 
W K SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: 
 MAGCY S. FRIEDMAN, J.S.C. 
Justice PART 
 gy 
MOTION DATE 
SEQ. 
 No. 
a/ 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for uu 
I PAPERSNUMB 
JkiV 0 
8 
MI2 Notice of Motion/ 
. 
-- 
- 
Replying Affidavits 7 
/- 3 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
Check one: 
d FINAL DISPOSITION / 
0 NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: PART 57 ” 
STANLEY & SONS, INC., 
Plaintiff, 
-against - Index No. 124149/97 
DECISION/ORDER 
WELLS FARGO ALARM SERVICES, INC., THE 
CITY OF NEW YORK and THE NEW YORK CITY 
POLICE DEPARTMENT, . 
Defendants. 
X 
In this action, plaintiff Stanley & Sons, Inc. (“Stanley”) sues to recover for property 
damages allegedly sustained as a result of a burglary at its premises on May 20, 1997. The 
complaint asserts causes of action for gross negligence and breach of contract against defendant 
Wells Fargo Alarm Services, Inc. (“Wells Fargo”), and for negligence against defendants. The 
City of New York and The New York City Police Department (“City”). Wells Fargo moves, and 
the City cross -moves, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint. 
The standards for summary judgment are well settled. The movant must tender evidence, 
by proof in admissible form, to establish the cause of action “sufficiently to warrant the court as a 
matter of law in directing judgment.” (CPLR 3212[b]; Zuckerman v. Citv of New York, 49 
NY2d 557, 562 [ 19801). “Failure to make such showing requires denial of the motion, regardless 
of the sufficiency of the opposing papers.” 
 (Wineaad v. New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 
851,853 [ 19851.) Once such proof has been offered, to defeat summary judgment “the opposing 
party must ‘show facts sufficient to require a trial of any issue of fact’ (CPLR 3212, subd. [b]).” 
(Zuckerman v. Citv of New York, supra, at 562.) 
1 [* 2 ]
It is undisputed that, at the time of the burglary, Wells Fargo had contracted with plaintiff 
to provide and maintain a burglar alarm system at plaintiffs premises, a retail jewelry store. The 
events surrounding the burglary are also not in dispute. An alarm was received from plaintiffs 
premises at approximately 3:06 a.m. by Wells Fargo, and a second alarm was received at about 
4:28 a..m. A Wells Fargo guard was dispatched at about 459 a.m., and amved at the premises at 
about 5:31 a.m. 
Wells Fargo moves to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that the limitation of liability . 
provision of the contract exculpates it from ordinary negligence, and that its conduct as a matter 
of law was not grossly negligent. Wells Fargo contends that its delay in responding to the alarm 
was insufficient to demonstrate a “reckless indifference to the rights of others” as is required to 
find gross negligence. (Aff. of Andreas E. Theodosiou, Esq., 
11 15.) 
The parties’ contract provides in pertinent part: 
Subscriber agrees that Wells Fargo Alarm shall not be liable for any 
of subscriber’s losses or damages, irrespective of origin, to person or to 
property, whether directly or indirectly caused by performance or 
nonperformance of any obligation imposed by this agreement or by 
negligent acts or omissions of Wells Fargo Alarm, its agents or employees. 
It is agreed that if Wells Fargo Alarm should be found liable for any 
losses or damages attributable to a failure of systems or services in any 
respect, its liability shall be limited to the annual charge hereunder, or 
$10,000.00, whichever is less. 
It is now well established that 
“[albsent a statute or public policy to the contrary, a 
contractual provision absolving a party from its own negligence will be enforced.” (Sommer v. 
Federal Signal Corn., 79 NY2d 540, 553 [1992].) “Public policy, however, forbids a party’s 
attempt to escape liability, through a contractual clause, for damages occasioned by ‘grossly 
negligent conduct’.’’ 
 (Colnachi. USA. Ltd.. v. Jewelers Protection Servs., Ltd., 8 1 NY2d 821, 
2 [* 3 ]
. 823 [ 19931; Sommer v. Federal Signal Corn., supra, at 554; Kalisch -Jarcho, Inc. v Citv of New 
York, 58 NY2d 377 [1983].) “This applies equally to contract clauses purporting to exonerate a 
party from liability and clauses limiting damages to a nominal sum.” (Sommer v. Federal Signal 
Corn., supra, at 554.) “Used in this context, ‘gross negligence’ differs in kind, not only degree, 
from claims of ordinary negligence. It is conduct that evinces a reckless disregard for the rights 
of others or ‘smacks’ of intentional 
 wrongdoing.” 
 (Colnaghi, USA. Ltd.. v. Jewelers Protection 
Servs., Ltd., supra, at 823-824; Sommer v. Federal Signal Corn., supra, at 554.) 
Here, plaintiff contends that Wells Fargo was grossly negligent because it failed to 
dispatch a guard to the premises for almost two hours after it received the first alarm, 
notwithstanding that plaintiffs contract required a general response time of 15 minutes. 
According to the deposition testimony of Timothy McEnaney, Wells Fargo’s Central Station 
Manager, Stanley was classified as a “double A2“ customer, which entitled plaintiff to a guard 
response time of “15 minutes 80 percent of the time” and a preference in response time over 
other non double A2 customers. (McEnaney Dep [Aug. 19, 19991, at 73-74; McEnaney Dep 
[Oct. 18, 19991, at 24-26.) Plaintiff thus argues that Wells Fargo’s delayed response was grossly 
negligent in view of plaintiffs classification as a “double A2” customer. 
Plaintiff also argues that Wells Fargo was grossly negligent based on its contacts with the 
police. It is undisputed that while Wells Fargo notified the police of the first alarm, it informed 
the police that Wells Fargo would respond to that alarm, but did notify the police once it 
determined there was not in fact a guard available to respond. (McEnaney Dep [Oct. 18, 19991, at 
7-9.) Wells Fargo did not notify the police of the second alarm. (u, at 9-10.) Plaintiff asserts 
that Wells Fargo’s failure to inform the police that it was not responding to the first alarm and its 
3 [* 4 ]
. failure to notify the police of the second alarm evidences reckless indifference to its obligations 
to plaintiff. 
Courts have repeatedly held that 
“[dlelayed or inadequate response to an alarm signal, 
without more, is not gross negligence.” In Hartford Ins. Co. v. Holmes Protection Group (250 
AD2d 526,528 [ 1998]), this Department held that a security company’s late response on two 
dates to alarms and failure to notify police did not constitute gross negligence, notwithstanding 
that its contract required it to have security guards amve at the premises within 15 minutes of 
receipt of the alarm signal. (See also, Consumers Distrib. Co. v. Baker Protective Servs., Inc., 
202 AD2d 327 [ lst Dept 19941, lv denied 84 NY2d 81 1 [failure to respond on two separate 
occasions to signal indicating burglary despite hourly reminders was not gross negligence]; 
Advance Burglar Alarm Svs.. Inc. v. D’Auria, 110 AD2d 860 [2d Dept 
 1985][allegation of 
failure to provide appropriate and timely guard response stated claim for ordinary not gross 
negligence]; Dubovskv & Sons, Inc. v. 
Honewell. Inc., 89 AD2d 993 [2d Dept 
 1982][complaint 
pleading failure to dispatch knowledgeable person to determine cause of alarm alleged ordinary 
not gross negligence].) 
Hanover Ins. Co. v. D & W Cent. Sta. Alarm Co., 164 AD2d 112 [ 1’‘ Dept 19901, on 
which plaintiff relies, is not to the contrary. Like the instant case, Hanover involved a lengthy 
delay in dispatching a guard to the premises. The guard was dispatched shortly after a third 
alarm, but approximately one hour from the time of the second alarm and two hours from the 
time of the first alarm. However, in Hanover, the court found that triable issues of fact existed as 
to whether defendant was grossly negligent because, in addition to the delay in responding to the 
alarms, defendant not only failed “to notify the police upon receipt of three alarm signals in the [* 5 ]
. span of four hours,” but directed “the guard who responded to ‘forget the assignment’ because he 
encountered difficulty in entering the building.” (Id., at 1 IS.) The significance of the security 
company’s directive to its guard to “forget the 
assignment” is emphasized in this Department’s 
later decision in Hartford Ins. Co. v. Holmes Protection Group (supra, at 528) which, in 
summarizing the holding in Hanover Ins. Co., noted that a triable issue of gross negligence 
existed based on the company’s “instructing its guard to ‘ ‘forget the assignment’ 
 ’ when he had 
difficulty getting into the building, coupled with its failure to notify the police.’ ” The court in 
Hartford Ins. Co. also emphasized that “a triable issue of ‘gross negligence’ is not typically found 
absent more outrageous acts of folly.” (Id.) 
Here, although defendant’s delay in responding to the alarms was inordinate, the delay 
without more is not gross negligence. (See, Hartford Ins. Co. v. Holmes Protection Group, 
supra.) Moreover, although plaintiff argues that defendant’s failure to inform the police that it 
was not responding raises an issue of gross negligence, there is no evidence that the police would 
have acted any differently had Wells Fargo advised the police that it was not responding to the 
alarm. To the contrary, the complaint against the City alleges that the City “at some time prior to 
May 20, 1997 determined not to respond to burglar alarms at the Premises.” (Verified Complaint, 
11 27.) Thus, while Wells Fargo’s response to the alarm is “perhaps suggestive of negligence or 
even ‘gross negligence’ as used elsewhere, [it] does not evince the recklessness necessary to 
abrogate [Stanley’s] agreement to absolve [Wells Fargo] from negligence claims.” 
 Colnachi, 
USA. Ltd., v. Jewelers Protection Servs., Ltd., supra, at 824.) Wells Fargo is therefore entitled to 
summary judgment dismissing the first cause of action for gross negligence. 
Wells Fargo also seeks to dismiss the second cause of action against it for breach of 
5 [* 6 ]
. contract. Plaintiff appears to concede that its claim against Wells Fargo sounds in tort rather than 
contract. (See, P’s Memo. Of Law, Point U.) Moreover, the contract claim, as pleaded in the 
complaint, is based on the same facts and seeks the same damages as the gross negligence cause 
of action. It is accordingly duplicative of the gross negligence cause of action, rather than 
separate or independent, and should be dismissed. (&, Sase Realty Cop. v. Proskauer Rose 
L.L.P., 251 AD2d 35 [lst Dept 19981; Stendi?. Inc. v. Thorn Rock Realty Co., 163 AD2d 46 [lst 
Dept 19901.) 
Defendants City of New York and The New York City Police Department cross -move for 
summary judgment dismissing the complaint as against them on the ground that they are immune 
from liability because their actions in this case arose out of the performance of their 
governmental functions, and no special relationship or duty existed between plaintiff and the City 
defendants. In the absence of any opposition by the plaintiff and defendant Wells Fargo, and for 
good cause shown, the cross -motion should be granted. 
Accordingly, the motion and cross -motion are granted to the extent that the complaint and 
all cross-claims are dismissed and the Clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly. 
Dated: This constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
6 New York, New York 
December 3 1,200 1 
MARCY FRIEDMAN, J.S.C. 
6 [* 7 ]
