People v Adams
2001 NY Slip Op 30042(U)
July 9, 2001
Supreme Court, Kings County
Docket Number: 0010106/1998
Judge: Michael A. Gary
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.-against- : DECISION AND ORDER 
AXELADAMS 
IND. NO. 10106-98 
Defendant 
X ................................................................ 
MICHAELA. GARY, J. 
Defendant moves pro se , pursuant to CPL 5 440.10, to vacate his judgment of 
conviction and the imposed sentence, in a motion dated January 26,2@0 1 I A supplemental 
affidavit was submitted on March 2,2001. The People have filed a response opposing the 
defendant's motion in papers dated May 15,200 1. Defendant argues, pursuant to CPL 
5440.10 subdivisions (l)(f) and (h) that the judgment was obtained in violation of his rights 
under the state and federal constitutions because of the ineffective assistance of counsel. In 
the alternative, he moves for a hearing on the issues. 
The defendant's conviction arose fiom the following incident. As found by the jury, 
on October 2, 1998 at approximately 5:30 P.M. the defendant along with one other man, 
who was not apprehended, entered a commercial location containing two businesses. In the 
fiont was a printing business run by Jorge Olsen and in the rear an export/import business 
run by Ingrid Scholl. The unapprehended man was carrying a large box that was packaged 
as if ready to ship to another country. He approached the rear of the store, while Mi. Adam 
entered the store and stayed in the fiont at the printing business. The unapprehended man 
grabbed Ms. Scholl, and kept demanding money. A struggle ensued and Ms. Scholl 
ultimately suffered a knife wound to her hand. In the meantime, the defendant was holdmg a 
1 large knife to Jorge Olsen’s stomach, also demanding money. The defendant grabbed Mr. 
Olsen’s chain during a struggle and Olsen escaped from the store and screamed for help. The 
defendant and the unapprehended other fled the building in opposite directions, and Jorge 
Olsen chased the defendant for three blocks. Police oficers were alerted to the robbery and 
the chase, and eventually apprehended the defendant in an abandoned lot. Jorge Olsen 
immediately identified the defendant as the man who took his chain and Ingrid Scholl later 
did so in a line-up. The police recovered a knife and Mi-. Olsen’s gold chain in the lot. 
-- - __ . . 
The def&dantwas charged in 6gs County Indictment 10 106-98 with the crimes of 
Robbery in the first degree (Penal Law 6 160.15), and related counts regarding Jorge Olsen 
and Attempted Robbery in the first degree (Penal Law 0 1 10/160.15), and related counts 
regarding Ingrid Scholl, under an acting-in-concert theory. After the defendant’s 
arraignment, bail ___ was posted, -- and after seved court appearances for discovery and plea 
negotiations, the court conducted pretrial hearings. Up till that time the defendant was 
represented by a privately retained attorney, Alan Stutman. At the next adjournment, when 
the case was scheduled to begin trial the defendant failed to show up in court. His bail was 
forfeited and a bench warrant was issued on June 14, 1999. 
Upon the defendant’s involuntary return on the warrant by bail bondsmen in 
December, 1999, the case was adjourned for trial. Sometime in January, the defendant 
requested that new counsel be assigned and on February 8,2000 Brian Perskin, Esq. was 
given the case to try. The court adjourned the case until February 17, for final plea 
negotiations and/or for preliminary trial matters, and then again until February 22, for jury 
selection to begin. 
2 The defendant was convicted on February 28,2000, of Robbery in the first degree 
and Attempted Robbery in the second degree. He was adjudicated a second felony offender 
and sentenced on March 21,2000 to respective determinate terns of imprisonment of 15 
years and 7 years to run concurrently. 
The defendant’s appeal has been perfected, as appellant’s brief was filed on April 5, 
200 1 with the Appellate Division Second Department. 
The defendant now moves to vacate the conviction stating that he was deprived of 
- ~ __ - ... - 
his right to counsel under the constitution in that Mi-. Perskin was unprepared, failed to 
properly cross-examine the complainant regarding a previous arrest, failed to strenuously 
argue the defendant’s CPL $30.30 claim, failed to present the defendant’s “derivative 
defense”(?) (Def.’s motion, page 8, paragraph 7) that there was a struggle but he did not 
___ - - - initiate it and failed to challenge the court’s charge-to-the jury in this regarcl-and failed to 
give a strong summation. Defendant also maintains that his common law wife was willing to 
substantiate information regarding defendant’s blindness, that it was his own chain he 
recovered, and that he feared turning in other neighborhood people who put him up to 
bringing the package into the store in the first place, and how both attorneys ignored this 
information and failed to surnmon her as a witness. Additionally, the defendant complains 
that Mi-. Perskin, and before him, Mr. Stutman, treated both him and his common-law wife 
with disregard and contempt. The defendant has attached to his moving papers Exhibits A 
through R, as documentation to support his position as well as an affirmation by his common 
law wife, Tawana Middleton. 
The People counter in their response that as a procedural matter, all the allegations 
3 are reviewable in the Appellate Division on direct appeal, as they are matters that appear on 
the record. CPL 5 440.10 (2) (b). As a substantive matter, the People argue that the 
defendant received effective assistance of counsel under the law, and as such the motion to 
vacate must be denied. 
CPL 5 440.10 governs the court’s decision making capacity in regards to the motion 
to vacate the judgment of conviction. Upon examination of the record and all the previously 
filed motion papers, the court MUST deny the motion to vacate if : . . . 
__ - - - __ ___ - - - . _. _. _- ---- - --- - __ __ -. - . __ . . - - - -- - 
2.(a) the ground or issue raised upon the motion was previously determined on the 
merits upon an appeal fiom the judgment, . . . 
sufficient facts appear on the record with respect to the ground or issue raised upon the 
motion to permit adequate review thereof upon such an appeal; or 
judgment to have permitted, upon appeal fiom such judgment, adequate review of the 
ground or issue raised upon the motion , . . . no such appellate review or determination 
occurred owing to the defendant’s unjustifiable failure to . . . raise such ground or issue upon 
an appeal actually perfected by him; (b) the judgment is at the time of the motion appealable or pending on appeal, and 
(c) although sufficient facts appear on the record of the proceeding underlying the 
A court is mandated to deny a motion to vacate a judgment of conviction when the 
issues raised therein should be raised in appellate proceedings. The court agrees with the 
People that the failures alleged by the defendant in his papers are largely matters that appear 
on the record and are reviewable on the appeal of this case, and thus not cognizable in this 
motion to vacate. Nevertheless, this court finds that the defendant’s claim is without merit. 
Mr. Adams complains that Mr. Perskin, the defense attorney who represented lum at 
trial, was unprepared to go forward with the case. He illustrates this by way of the attorney’s 
inability to argue the defendant‘s speedy trial motion, because he was not there on previous 
adjournments. The court notes that the record was very clear on the purposes of the previous 
adjournments, and that there was nothing substantive in the way of legal argument that Mr. 
Perskin, or anyone else, could have contributed to the court’s decision in denying the 
4 motion. With regards to the actual trial, the court supplied the defense attorney with all the 
materials that it had, had the previous defense attorney do the same and adjourned the case 
for over 10 days to prepare. Mr. Perslun had sufficient time to familiarize himself with the 
materials, and ably demonstrated his ability on cross-examination. Of course, as a matter on 
the record, this is properly handIed on direct appeal. 
Next, the defendant argues that his attorney failed to take into account in presenting 
his defense case or in cross-examination of any of the witnesses, the difficulties that the 
defendant has with his vision. Mr. Adams claims that his poor eyesight was in fact to blame 
for him picking up the victim’s chain along with his own, but more immediately the 
defendant claims that he was unable to see one of the 18 jurors in the venire, because of that . - - - - - - . - . - - - . - ._ - - - - - - - - - 
chair’s position. Though this was addressed on the record, he now claims that he was 
concerned that the juror may have had a hidden agenda or a vendetta against the defendant 
and the attorney failed to explore this possibility. Of course, the defendant fails to allege 
that though he heard the juror’s name and biography, any such facts emerged on the record, 
when it would have been timely to deal with. This juror was seated as an alternate but did 
not deliberate. Further, the People point out as a matter of substance, that the defendant 
neither in his statement to the police, nor in his testimony on the stand did he mention his 
poor eyesight, nor that he had a chain that he lost in a struggle with the victim. 
The defendant next complains that his attorney failed in his obligations to represent 
him in that he failed to properly cross-examine Mi. Olsen, the complainant, after it became 
known that he was wanted for a matter in New Hampshire. The defendant further alleges 
that the court’s instruction on Olsen’s use of the privilege against self-incrimination was in 
error. However, as the People point out, once the witness refuses to answer a question and 
invokes his rights under the Fifth Amendment, cross-examination on the substance of the 
5 charges is foreclosed and the court properly instructed the jury how to consider the answer 
in its evaluation of the testimony. And of course, this is a matter on the record for 
consideration by the appellate court. 
Exhibit I, Tawana Middleton’s affidavit, necessitates comment as this is a matter 
outside the record. The information regarding the defendant’s alleged vision problems are 
inapposite since the defendant could have raised the issue during his testimony; it was well 
within his knowledge. He, however, did not. And though she now complains about Mr. 
Stutman’s performance, her remedy as was exercised, was to terminate his representation. 
The court cannot make a determination as to the allegations that Mr. Perskin was dismissive ____-- - -- ~___ -. _. __ . 
of the defendant outside of court proceedings. The court’s view of the overall representation 
by the attorney must be viewed in the totality of the circumstances, and as discussed below 
the court fmds that representation was more than adequate. In fact, Mr. Perskin succeeded in 
obtaining an acquittal of the most serious charge, Attempted Robbery in the first degree, as it 
related to Ms. Scholl. 
The defendant‘s right to effective assistance of counsel is governed by the standards 
enunciated in Strickland v. Washington, 466 US 668 (1 984) and People v. Baldi, 54 NY2d 
137 (1981). He has a right to competent counsel. The record here reveals that the each of 
defendant’s attorneys effectively made motions, conducted plea negotiations and cross- 
examined witnesses at the hearing and at trial. The defendant’s failure to persuade the jury 
that h~s version of events was to be believed after he testified, can not be attributed to the 
performance of his attorney. The court notes that at no time did the jury request readback of 
any testimony. In rendering a guilty verdict within approximately five hours of being 
charged, the jury obviously rejected defendant’s testimony in its entirety. 
More importantly, under the standard enunciated in People v. SatterJeZd, 66 NY2d 
6 796, it is precisely the kind of speculation that is attempted here that is anathema to a review 
of these type of claims. 
... [C]ounsel's subjective reasons for his choice of 
[this] strategy in this case were immaterial. Viewed 
objectively, the transcript and the submissions reveal 
the existence of a trial strategy that might have been 
pursued by a reasonably competent attorney ... it is not 
for the court to second guess whether a course chosen 
by defense counsel was the best trial strategy or even a 
good one, so long as defendant was afforded 
meaningful representation. At p. 799 
As the defendant has not proffered -. a cognizable ground under CPL 0 440.10 (1) (h) 
I -*...e--.. - * I _____ __ __--- 
to convince the court that any violation of the defendant's rights under the constitution 
occurred, the court hereby denies this motion to vacate the judgment. 
The foregoing constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
Dated: Brooklyn, New York 
July 9,2001 HON. MI- A. GAfW 
MICHAELI4!.%kRYy J. S. C. 