People v Lower E. Side Intl. Community School
2001 NY Slip Op 30075(U)
August 8, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 401703/01
Judge: Walter B. Tolub
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
'A PRESENT: WALTER 8. TOLUb 
Justice 
.I&.., 
0 I- 
W K U 
W 
LL W K n .I 
PART / 5 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. oc;/ 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I I I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
I 
Replying Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
- Cross-Motion: il Yes No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
II . [* 1]
SUPREME COU3.T OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF 1;3W YO3.K: IAS PART 15 
PEOPLE OF ?:;,E STA-TE OF NEW YOXK, by 
ELIOT SPITZZR, Aztorney General of the 
State of Ne-4 York X _________-___________--_---_-_-------- 
Peticioners, 
-against- 
LOWER EAST SIDE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY 
SCHOOL d/b/2 HARLEM INTERNATIONAL 
COMMUNITY SCHOOL, WALLIE C. SIMPSON, 
Principal, CEO, President of the Board 
of Trustees Index No. 401703/01 
Mtn. Seq. No. 001 
This s?ecial proceeding concerns the charter and 
registraticn of - G school and allegations that the school 
fraudulently and deceptively represents its credentials to the 
general public. It is alleged by the petitioners that the 
respondents have misled and continue to mislead the public by 
advertising and operating a nonpublic high school without 
disclosing che school's inability to issue diplomas, offer 
Regents examinations, or provide certain educational services to 
its students. 
The petitioners move for an order and judgment, pursuant to 
Executive Law section 63(12) and General Business Law sections 
349 and 350-d, enjoining the respondents from engaging in any 
fraudulent, deceptive, and unlawful acts arising out of the 
operation of the Lower East Side International Community School 
d/b/a Harlem International Community School ("LESICY). The . [* 2]
peticioners further seek an crder (1) directing the respondents 
to disclose to consumers that LESICS is not chartered or 
registered by the Board of Regents to operate a high school; (2) 
enjcining the respondents fr3m making any statements that give 
the impression the school is licer,sed or accredited; (3) 
directing the respondents to pay restitution and costs; and (4) 
requiring the respondents to post $25,000 should they apply for 
an amendment to their charter. 
Backcrround 
According to the verified petition, the respondents began to 
operate “The Lower East Community School” in 1977 after they 
applied for and were granted a provisional charter from the Board 
of Rigents. The provisional charter permitted the respondents to 
operate a nonpublic school for pre-k through sixth grade. 
The provisional charter was amended twice. The first 
amendment, in November 1984, changed’the school’s address to West 
22”” Street and the name to “The Lower East Side International 
Community School.” The second amendment, in June 1988, 
authorized the addition of grades seven and eight. At that time, 
the provisional charter was made permanent. 
The petitioners allege that soon thereafter, the respondents 
began to violate their charter by changing the location of the 
school and using the corporate name the ”Harlem International * 
Community School“ without first obtaining an amendment of their 
. 2 [* 3]
charter. The school closed from 1993 until 1997. 
According to the petition, in the summer of 1997, the 
respondents opened the current school and began to advertise that 
the school would be offering instruction for pre-k through 
twelfth gra5es. It is alleged that the respondents' 
advertisements failed to indicate that the high school was not 
chartered or registered by thi Board of Regents and that the high 
school was without authority EO issue diplomas or administer 
Regents exaxcinations. Rather, the petitioners maintain, the 
respondents continue to deceive consumers by making false claims 
that the school is "licensed" or "accredited," and falsely 
advertise that its faculty members have sufficient training to 
teach specialized courses. For example, it is alleged by the 
petitioners that a math teacher has no math degree and is in fact 
a janitor. The petitioners claim that as a result of the 
respondents' practices, students receive a poor quality of 
instruction, do not receive valid high school diplomas, and must 
complete a General Equivalency Diploma program to obtain credit. 
The petition further alleges that the respondents have 
engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of General 
Business Law section 349 and false advertising in violation of 
General Business Law section 350. 
In their answer, the respondents assert two cross claims: 
(1) the New York State Education Department ("SED") has 
. 3 [* 4]
wrongfully rifused to register LESICS with the Board of Regents 
or amend its charter to reflect its name change and change of 
address and (2) the SED and the Board of Education of District 6 
have failed zo issue a decision in connection with a request for 
a "decerminEcion of subszantial equivalency" as to LESICS' 
qualificaticns. The res?ondent Wallie C. Simpson, the principal 
of LESICS, contends that the petitioners' allegations were in 
fact isolated instances, as the word licensed was mistakenly used 
to describe LESICS, and che phrase "full accreditation" was based 
on the accreditation LESICS obtained from the National Private 
Schools Asscciation Group. 
The respondents further maintain that since the 
invescigaticn of LESICS by the Attorney General's Office has 
commenced, ::?e respondents have advised parents that it cannot 
issue a Board of Regents diploma. The respondents dispute that 
they have engaged in persistent fraud or repeated fraudulent 
acts, and contend that they are committed educators intent on 
improving the educational experience for New York City's 
children. 
The respondents claim that registration with the Board of 
Regents is voluntary, schools that are not registered with the 
Board of Regents may still issue "local diplomas" as an 
alternative to a Regents diploma, and that there is a presumption 
that a school chartered by the Board of Regents is providing an * 
4 . [* 5]
education substantially equivalent to that of a public school. 
<Discussion 
An application by the attorney general for relief under 
Executive Law section 63(12) "is addressed to the sound judicial 
discretion of the court" (State of New York v Princess Prestiqe 
Co., Inc., 42 NY2d 104, 108 [1977]). As a special proceeding, 
the issues raised in the petition are to be summarily determined 
on the papers "to the extent that no triable issues of fact are 
raised" (CPLR 409[b] ) . 
Pursuant to Executive Law section 63(12), the attorney 
general may seek an order enjoining fraudulent or illegal acts 
and directing restitution and damages "[wlhenever any person 
shall engage in repeated fraudulent or illegal acts or otherwise 
demonstrate persistent fraud or illegality in the carrying on, 
conducting or transaction of business." The statute defines 
fraud "broadly" (People of the State of New York v Apple Health & 
Sports Clubs. Ltd., Inc., 80 NY2d 803, 807 [1992]) to include 
"any device, scheme or artifice to defraud and any deception, 
misrepresentation, concealment, suppression, false pretense, 
false promise or unconscionable contractual provisions" 
(Executive Law 5 63 [12] 1. 
It is undisputed that the respondents, on a number of 
occasions, have misrepresented LESICS' accreditation and 
licensing status. Although these occasions may have been few, 
. 5 [* 6]
ti-e attorney general is ncz required to establish a large 
percentage of violations Eider :he statute, only repeated illegal 
or fraudulent acts (a., a: 107:. 
The respondents’ reply to zhe pezition and affirmative 
defenses are wholly inadequate EO raise a rriable issue. The 
aF?licable law is clear, as “[o:nly tnose public and nonpublic 
schools which are registered by the E3ard of Regents upon 
recommendation of the commissioner, nay issue diplomas and 
a6riniscer Regents examinations” (8 NYCRR § 100.2 [p] ) . 
Alzhough che respondents cite to the SED’S Manual for New 
Administrators of Nonpublic Schools (”Manual”) and Guidelines for 
DeLermining Equivalency of Instruction in Nonpublic Schools 
(“Suidelines”) in support of their arguments, both of these 
boaklets support the petitioners. For example, although the 
respondents contend that LESICS may award diplomas, the Manual 
provides, “[olnly a registered secondary school may administer 
Regents examinations and award diplomas’’ (Manual, at 8); (see, 
also, Guidelines, at 7 [“a school which is not registered may not 
auninister Regents examinations or award diplomas”]). Similarly, 
the Guidelines states, “[nlonpublic school authorities have a 
serious responsibility to notify parents of its pupils that the 
school is not registered by the Board of Regents and is not 
authorized to issue diplomas” (Guidelines, at 13). Accordingly, 
neither the Guidelines nor the Manual supports the respondents. I 
. [* 7]
The Csurt recognizes that by letter dated February 11, 2000, 
the responsents notified its students‘ parents and guardians that 
the school does not have the authority to operate a secondary 
school or issue ‘nigh school diplomas (Petition, Exh. M). This 
notificatisn is appropriate. What is not appropriate, however, 
is the facz thac the respondents sent a second letter on the same 
day stating that the first letter was sent at the direction of 
the petitioners, that the petitioners‘ complaints are 
“unfounded,” and that the request to send the letter “is 
tantamount to a totalitarian state’’ (a., Exh. N). Such mixed 
messages hsrdly complies with the claim that the respondents have 
ceased making deceptive statements. 
The petitioners seek restitution for all consumers who have 
been injured as a result of respondents’ misrepresentations. 
Although t5e pezitioners make reference to numerous parents who 
have been injured, only two affidavits from parents of students 
have been submitted to the Court, totaling $4,125.00 (see, 
Petition, Exh. K, L). 
As for the two cross-claims asserted by the respondents, the 
cross-claims are procedurally defective and are stricken. The 
cross-claims seek relief from the SED, District 6, and the 
Superintendent, none of whom are parties in this proceeding. The 
cross-claims are therefore stricken (see, CPLR 401). 
Accordingly, it is ordered that the respondents are 
7 
c [* 8]
permanently enjoined from engaging in any fraudulent, deceptive, 
and unlawful acts arising out of :he operation of the Lower East 
Side Internatioral Community Schocl d/b/a Harlem Internatiorial 
Community School. It is further crdered that within 10 days of 
service of a copy of zhis order with notice of entry, the 
respondents are to disclose to the parents or guardians of all 
students currently enrolled in LESICS that LESICS is not 
chartered or registered by the Board of Regents to operate a high 
school. IE is further ordered that the respondents are enjoined 
from making any statements, verbal or written, that give the 
impression that LESICS is licensed or accredited by any 
governmental body until such time, if ever, that LESICS is 
licensed cr accredited by a governmental body. It is further 
ordered that the petitioners are awarded $2,000.00 in costs. 
It is ordered that the respondents are directed to pay 
restitution in the amount of $4,125.00 to the parents who have 
submitted affidavits to the Court. It is further ordered that in 
the event the respondents apply for an amendment to their 
charter, the respondents are to post a performance bond in the 
amount of $10,000.00, guaranteeing that respondents comply with 
this decision. 
This constitutes the decision and judgment of the Court. 
Dated: ' +L/ 
. [* 9]
