Edwards v C & D Unlimited, Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30001(U)
July 3, 2001
Supreme Court, Suffolk County
Docket Number: 0023558/1998
Judge: Donald Kitson
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SIiOHT FORM ORUER 
INDEX 
NO. 
23558/98 
SUPREME COURT - STATE OF NEW YORK 
PART 29 SUFFOLK COUNTY 
Present: 
Hon DONALD KITSON MOTION DATE: 05/18/01 
Justice SUBMIT DATE: 05/24/01 
MOTION NO.: 009 MD 
PLTF' S/PET' S ATTY: 
EISENBERG, MARGOLIS, FRIEDMAN 
& MOSES 
11 PARK PLACE, SUITE 606 MORGAN EDWARDS and KRISTINE EDWARDS 
Plaintiffs, NEW YORK, NY 10007 
- against - 
C&D UNLIMITED, INC., GOLIATH STONE DEFT' S/RESP'S ATTY: 
SALES, LTD. and ANTORINO SEWER & DRAIN, INC., QUIRK and BAKALOR, P.C. 
845 THIRD AVENUE 
NEW YORK, NY 10022 
Defendants. 
AHMUTY, DEMERS 
 E, McMANUS, ESQS 
200 I.U. WILLETS ROAD 
ALBERTSON, NY 11507 X 
The Court in its deliberations herein has considered: 
1. Notice of Motion and supporting papers; 
2. Affirmation in Opposition; 
3. Reply Affirmation. 
Remaining defendant, C&D UNLIMITED, INC., moves for leave to reargue 
plaintiffs' cross motion for summary judgment pursuant to Labor Law §241(6) 
upon the basis that this Court overlooked and/or misapprehended matters of 
fact and in law. Upon said reargument, defendant seeks an order that 
plaintiffs' 
§241(6) be denied. cross-motion for summary judgment pursuant to Labor Law 
Counsel argues that for summary judgment to be granted on violation of 
Labor Law §241(6) a violation of a provision of the Industrial Code must be 
established and then opines that once it has been alleged that a concrete 
section of the Code has been violated, it is the jury's province to 
determine whether the negligence of some party or participant caused 
plaintiff's injury. 
specific provision of the Industrial Code has been violated. Counsel 
solely argues that it is for the jury to determine whether the negligence Counsel does not ask this Court to decide whether a [* 1 ]
2 
caused this plaintiff’s injury. Counsel further claims that whether the 
plaintiff was comparatively negligent was an issue which should be 
presented to the jury. 
the jury absent a finding that there are no triable issues of fact on a 
summary judgment motion when the opposition is required to lay bare its 
proof. 
Dept. , 1987) ) It is well-settled that negligence is an issue for 
(see, Cohen v City of New York, 128 AD2d 748, 513 NYS2d 459 
 (2nd 
It is this defendant‘s contention that plaintiffs failed to meet their 
This defendant is burden of proof as they did not establish the injured plaintiff’s freedom 
from comparative negligence to warrant summary judgment. 
relying upon the record before this Court in which it is undisputed that 
the injured plaintiff determined that as part of his supervisory capacity, 
he was to measure the depth of the hole. Upon measuring the hole, which 
was not shored, the injured plaintiff fell when the ground gave way and 
allegedly sustained the injuries at issue. 
The only issue for reargument before this Court is whether 
contributory or comparative negligence is a defense which must be proven by 
the defendant and defendant did not meet its burden or whether the 
plaintiffs have the burden of proof to show a violation of the Industrial 
Code 
& freedom by the injured plaintiff of any contributory or 
comparative negligence on his part to obtain summary judgment on the claim 
pursuant to Labor Law 
 §241(6). 
Defendant’s 
misapprehend or 
cited by this de 
269 AD2d 572, 70 
Second Departmen 
aeneral contract motion for reargument is denied because the Court did not 
overlook any aspect of the law or facts. In the very case 
fendant, Lorefice v Reckson Operating Partnership, L.P., 
3 NYS2d 507 
 (2nd Dept., 2000), the Appellate Division, 
t recently makes it clear that it is for the “owner or 
2- 
 ~ or” to “raise any valid defense to the imposition of 
vicarious liability” under Labor Law 5241 (6), which defense would include 
“contributory and comparative negligence”. 
supra, page 573). (see, Lorefice v Reckson, 
The Court has reviewed the previous papers submitted by this 
defendant’s counsel and finds nothing contained therein which 
met its 
burden of demonstrating a triable issue of fact on the defense of 
comparative and contributory negligence. The only issue this defendant’s 
counsel argued was the fact that if violation of the Industrial Code were 
to be found, then the issue of negligence should go to the jury. 
time did this defendant argue the existence of contributory and comparative 
negligence as a defense, which was its burden. At no 
The foregoing constitutes the ORDER of this Court. 
DATE: July 3, 2001 [* 2 ]
