Merola v Catholic Med. Ctr. of Brooklyn & Queens,
Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30078(U)
September 19, 2001
Sup Ct, Queens County
Docket Number: 13511/1996
Judge: Simeon Golar
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.Short Form Order 
NEW YORK SUPREME COURT - QUEENS COUNTY 
Present : HONORABLE SIMEON GOLAR 
Just ice 
- against - 
CATHOLIC MEDICAL CENTER OF 
BROOKLYN AND QUEENS, INC., etc., : 
et al. IA PART 24 
Index 
Number 13511 1996 
Motion 
Date June 12, 2001 
Motion 
Cal. Number 23 
The following papers numbered 1 through 14 read on this motion by 
defendants for an order pursuant to'CPLR 2104 and 3217, and EPTL ยง 
5-4.6 (1) approving a settlement and discontinuing this action with 
prejudice; (2) directing plaintiff to deliver to counsel a duly 
executed general release and hold-harmless agreement within 10 days 
after the service of a copy of the order to be entered herein 
together with notice of entry; and (3) directing defendants to pay 
the sum of $25,000.00 to counsel for plaintiff within 21 days after 
the delivery of the release. Plaintiff cross-moves in opposition, 
and seeks an order (1) disapproving the settlement (2) directing 
the entry of the judgment in accordance with the jury's verdict and 
(3) appoiiALLiAs a Suai-Jizn ad litpm fcrr the I~.fan+,, Michael Merola. 
Papers 
Numbered 
Notice of Motion-Affidavits-Exhibits(A-B)....... 1 . 4 
Notice of Cross Motion-Affidavits-Exhibits(1-3). 5 - 10 
Reply Affidavits ............................... 11 . 12 
Reply Affidavits ............................... 13 . 14 
Upon the foregoing papers it is ordered that the motion and 
cross motion are decided as follows: 
This is an action to recover damages for wrongful death 
r*:sultii.G f L I-li iiit:licld m3lprartice. T'he decedent, Wanda Merola, 
was born on November 21, 1951 and died on January 12, 1996. She [* 1]
was survived by her husband, Patsy Merola, born on October 18, 
1948, and their two children, Kristy Ann Merola and Michael Merola, 
who were 15 and 14 years old, respectively, at the time of their 
mother's death. Michael Merola was born with congenital myotonic 
dystrophy and, as a result, is physically and mentally disabled. 
Limited Letters of Administration were issued to Patsy Merola on 
May 31, 1996, and on June 20, 1996, the within wrongful death 
action was commenced by Mr. Merola as Administrator of the Estate 
of Wanda Merola. The trial before a jury of the action was 
commenced on March 28, 2000, and continued through April 13, 2000. 
At trial, the jury heard testimony that in the early evening 
hours of January 11, 1996, the decedent was taken to the emergency 
room of St. John's Medical Center complaining of shortness of 
breath and chest pain. She was initially seen by the triage nurse, 
then by emergency room physicians. The decedent was found to have 
very poor oxygen saturation, and during the next several hours 
various tests were performed and medications and oxygen 
administered. At some time in the early hours of January 12, 1996, 
decedent died. Plaintiff alleged that defendants failed to properly 
diagnose and treat the decedent for a pulmonary embolism, which 
caused her death. 
On April 13, 2000, after the conclusion of the trial and while 
the jury was deliberating, plaintiff's trial counsel and defense 
counsel placed on the record, without obtaining the prior approval 
of the court, a stipulation which provided that, in the event of a 
defendants' verdict plaintiff would receive $90,000.00 and that, in 
the event of a plaintiff's verdict, the plaintiff would receive 
$250,000.00, regardless of the amount of the verdict. Mr. Merola 
did not personally participate in this stipulation, and the court 
did not participate in negotiating or approving the purported 
settlement before it was entered into the record, nor thereafter in 
writing, as required by statute for it to have been valid and 
binding (see, EPTL 55-4.6 [a] [I] ) ; noi did it approve it a:: th:e tim- 
it was placed on the record. It should be noted in this regard 
that the court did not have any prior notice or request that such 
a stipulation would be entered into the record. At the conclusion 
of the trial and after deliberations, the jury found in favor of 
the plaintiff and awarded damages in the amount of $16,000,000, 
allocated bctw?Fn dxdent's claim for pain and suffering, and the 
pecuniary losses suffered by the decedent's distributees. 
Following the trial of the action and the plaintiffs' verdict, 
plaintiff engaged new counsel to seek to set aside the prior 
stipulation of settlement. 
Defendants' motion for an order approving the stipulation of 
settlement of April 13, 2000, directing the plaintiff to deliver an 
executed general release and hold-harmleaa agreement, and dkecting 
2 [* 2]
plaintiff to accept payment of his counsel fees in the sum of 
$25,000.00, is denied in its entirety. Section 5-4.6(a) of the 
EPTL provides that only /'an administrator appointed under 5-4.1 or 
a personal representative to the court in which an action for 
wrongful act, neglect or default causing the death of a decedent is 
pending.. ." may make an application to compromise or settle the 
action. The defendants in a wrongful death action have no legal 
interest in whether the settlement is in the Lest interest of the 
estate, and therefore do not have standing to seek the court's 
approval of the settlement. (See, Matter of DeLong, 89 AD2d 368.) 
Plaintiff's cross motion for an order disapproving and 
vacating the April 13, 2000 settlement is granted. It is the right 
and responsibility of this court to evaluate and determine the 
fairness and reasonableness of the settlement, including the amount 
to be paid, the manner in which the payment obligation is fulfilled 
and the parties' arrangements for payment of costs and attorneys' 
fees; and the court's written approval constitutes "conclusive 
evidence of the adequacy of the compromise in any proceeding in the 
surrogate's court for the final settlement of the account of [the] 
administrator or personal representative." (EPTL 5 5-4.61bl; see 
also, Pollicina v Misericordia HosDital Medical Center, 82 NY2d 
332.) In view of the Limited Letters of Administration, as well as 
the provisions of section 5-4.6 of !he EPTL, the parties could not 
lawfully enter into a binding settlement without the court's 
approval. The issue of plaintiff's counsel's apparent authority 
and the extent of that authority therefore is irrelevant. 
The court finds that, as the parties' settlement provided 
solely for a lump sum payment without allocating between the cause 
of action for the decedent's conscious pain and suffering and that 
for wrongful death, and the court's prior written approval as to 
the proposed settlement not having been obtained by the parties' 
counsel, the purported settlement is invalid. Moreover, in this 
cmrt's judgment, in view of the jury's verdict, the purported 
settlement would appear to inadequately compensate decedent's 
distributees. The court also notes that while the settlement 
failed to provide for the payment of costs and attorneys' fees, 
defendants now assert that they will pay plaintiff the sum of 
$25,000.00 for his attorneys' fees. This sum, however, was not 
part of the April 13, 2000 agreement, and it is unclear as to 
whether it is separate and apart from the $250,000.00, or whether 
it bears any relationship to the plaintiff's actual legal costs. 
In view of all of the foregoing, the proposed settlement is not in 
the best interests of the distributees of the decedent's estate and 
is not in accordance with the law. Accordingly, the court declines 
to approve the settlement and orders it vacated. 
3 [* 3]
r:llzintiff'L- requcst to appoint a guardian ad litem for Michael 
Merola is denied. The within action was brought by Patsy Merola as 
the Administrator of the Estate of Wanda Merola, on behalf of the 
distributees of the Estate, including Michael Merola. This action 
is now concluded as the action has been tried, and a jury verdict 
has been rendered. Therefore, there is no need for the court to 
appoint a guardian ad litem at this time. Plaintiff may renew his 
request in the Surrogate's Court, in order to protect the rights of 
Michael Merola in the distribution of the jury's award. 
Pursuant to the "so ordered" stipulation dated June 7, 2000, 
the parties are directed to file post-verdict motions within 60 
days of the date of this order, or to submit their proposed 
judgments in accordance with Article 50-B of the CPLR. 
Dated: 
SEP 1 9 2001 J.S.C. 
4 [* 4]
