Andresen v Kirschner
2001 NY Slip Op 30067(U)
December 20, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 113748/98
Judge: Kibbie F. Payne
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.*- 
I 
,I SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: Hon. 
 KIBBIE E 
PAYNE PART 
Justice 
(zdUu&d- INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 12- 12 -01 
-v- 
A' MOTION SEQ. NO. 
004 
MOTION CAI.. NO. 
d/L/a 
44~~ 
%2d, 
0 
 u . 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
PAPERS NUMBERED 
.. Notice of Motion/ 
 ---- - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - 
bdntm!T .. 3 
Replying Affidavits 
Cross -Motion : 
 - Yes 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that 
 (ki4R9ekeR 
&* 
Check one: ' -' FINAL DISPOSITION 
 L/NO~-FINAL DISPOSITION 
V [* 1]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: PART 4 
JOSEPH ANDRESEN and ADRIENNE ANDRESEN, 
Pluin~fis, 
- against - 
HANNAH 
 KIRSCHNER d/b/a HANNAH’S MOVING 
and JOHN DUVAL, 
Defendants. Index No. 
113748B8 
Motion Sequence 004 
DECISION/ORDER 
~ 
Kibbie F. Payne, J.S.C.: 
This is a post trial application made by plaintiffs, Joseph Andresen and Adrienne Andresen, for an 
order setting aside the verdict rendered on October 2,2001 and for a new trial (CPLR 4404 [a]), on the 
ground that the defense counsel’s introduction of evidence 
 concerning plaintiffs’ pretrial settlement with 
a non-party, Kevin Leeks, violated CPLR 4547 and deprived plaintiffs of a fair trial. Subsequent to the 
motion being marked “default” in the motion support office, the trial attorney for defendants Hannah 
Kirschner d/b/a Hannah’s Moving and John Duval (hereinafter “defendants”), on December 5, 2001, 
served opposition to the motion requesting that the default be vacated and that the court accept 
defendants’ opposition papers. It appears plaintiffs’ attorney served the attorney of record for defendants, 
Steven R. Harris, rather than trial counsel, Barry, Mc Tiernan & Moore. Consequently, trial counsel was 
unaware of the instant motion to set aside the verdict until recently. The issue of service aside, this court 
grants defendants’ application to vacate the default marking and to permit defendants to submit opposing 
papers and accepts defendants’ papers in opposition, preferring to reach the merits of the motion. 
The action was brought to recover damages for personal injuries sustained as a result of a motor 
vehicle accident involving plaintiff Joseph Andresen’s vehicle, a minivan driven by the non-party Kevin [* 2]
Leeks and a moving truck owned by defendants Hannah Kirschner d/b/a/ Hannah’s Moving and driven 
by defendant John Duval. Plaintiffs claim against the non-party Kevin Leeks was settled before this action 
was filed. Thereafter, on September 26,2001, a trial of the action against the above -captioned defendants 
ensued before this court and a jury. The issue of liability was sharply contested. At trial, defendants 
denied that they were in any way responsible for the accident and strongly challenged plaintiffs’ assertion 
that plaintiff was injured when defendants’ moving truck entered Mr. Andresen’s lane of travel and 
collided with the rear of plaintiff‘s vehicle. Defendants allege instead that it was the non-party, Kevin 
Leeks, who is responsible for the accident and Mr. Andresen’s injury. In order to establish its allegations 
against the settling non-party Kevin Leeks, defendants’ attorney began his cross-examination of Mr. 
Andresen by eliciting facts concerning details of the pretrial settlement. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to make 
a timely objection to defense counsel’s questions about the settlement, nor, did she move to strike such 
testimony. As a result, the jury learned that the plaintiff Joseph Andresen’s claim for personal injury and 
property damage against the non-party did not go to trial, but had been settled for an unspecified amount 
of money prior to the trial of this action. Defense counsel admits in his 
mation in Opposition that the 
“clear intent [of CPLR 45471 is to prevent fiom entry into evidence any 
testimony, etc. regarding 
settlement negotiations between the parties to litigation.” However, he argues that the admission of such 
evidence in this case was permissible to demonstrate 
 plaintfls “bias”. The court rejects counsel’s 
contrived construction of the exceptions to this exclusionary rule. To say that a party is “biased,” is to 
state the obvious. Bias is a form of interest in the outcome of the litigation and a party plaintiff or 
defendant, are always interested witnesses, since they have a motive to shield themselves from blame as 
actors in the transaction at issue (see, e.g., Coleman v New York City 
 TransitAuthority, 37 NY2d 137). 
But, the exception to the exclusion of the statute which allows the introduction of testimony concerning 
2 [* 3]
settlement on the issue of credibility relates to settlement by an adverse witness with the party for whom 
the witness is called to testify (Hill v Arnold, 226 AD2d 232,233; Pretto v Leiwant, 80 AD2d 579,580). 
Moreover, while such inquiry is permissible on the issue of credibility under certain exceptions, it may not 
be considered on the issue of liability (Woodland v Cote, 252 App Div 254, supra). CPLR 4547 codifies 
the long established common law rule in New York that “the settlement of a disputed claim or an offer 
to settle * * * is inadmissible to prove either the liability of the alleged wrongdoer or the weakness of the 
claimant’s cause of action” (Practice Commentaries, 
 McKinney’s Cons. Laws of New York Annotated, 
Book 7B, CPLR 4547, Supp. at p. 96). Thus, evidence of settlement payment or offers to pay are to be 
excluded unless offered for some other purpose, such as, to prove the bias or prejudice of a witness, to 
negate a contention of undue delay, or as proof of an effort to obstruct a criminal investigation or 
prosecution” (Id. at pp. 96-97), none of which are applicable in this case. Defendants’ attorney had no 
purpose in eliciting such 
 information, other than to convince the jury that the non-party driver, Kevin 
Leeks, was responsible for the accident and any resulting injury suffered by Mr. Andresen; and further, 
that Mr. Andresen had already been compensated for that injury. Counsel’s inquiry was 
improper and 
clearly ran afoul of the long standing ban of settlement evidence when it is attempted to be used to 
establish liability or to mitigate damages (see, Sabin -Goldberg v Horn, 179 AD2d 462, 463). 
Additionally, notwithstanding plaintiffs counsel’s failure to object, it was error for this court to have 
permitted defense counsel to cross -examine Mr. Andresen as to the settlement in the presence of the jury 
(Sky v 
Kahn-Frankl, 47 AD2d 939; also see, 
CatalfQm v Boucher, 33 AD2d 1081; Smith v Majestic 
Iron Works, 2 NY2d 544; Tennant v Dudley, 144 NY 504). CPLR 4533-b provides that: 
“In an action for personal injury, injury to property or for wrong - 
ful death, any proof as to payment by or settlement with another 
joint tort-feasor, or one claimed to be a joint tort -feasor, offered by 
a defendant in mitigation of damages, shall be taken out of the 
3 [* 4]
hearing of the jury. The court shall deduct the proper amount, as 
determined pursuant to section 15-108 of the general obligations 
law, from the award made by the jury.” 
The fact of settlement itself should not be disclosed to the jury or attempted to be used to mitigate 
damages. The purpose of this section is to avoid potential prejudice to a plaintiff which may result, if the 
jury gains knowledge of the settlement and returns a nominal verdict on the assumption that the settling 
party must have been the only culpable party (Abemethy v Azzoni, 78 Misc2d 832,833; 
 Pellegrino v New 
York City Transit Authority, 177AD2d 554,558; Hill v Amold, supra, dissenting opinion of Tom, J.). 
Finally, the sharply conflicting facts coupled with the prejudicial influence the fact of settlement 
may have had on the minds of the jurors, requires the court to grant the motion to set aside the verdict and 
to direct a new trial. Ordinarily, plaintiffs’ failure to object to defense counsel’s line of questioning would 
be deemed a waiver. But, where as here, the error is fundamental, a new trial is compelled in the interest 
of justice (see, Antonucci v Town 
 oflrondequoit, 81 AD2d 743,744); particularly, since the jury could 
have found otherwise, had the fact of settlement remained undisclosed. Such evidence improperly added 
materially to the weight of the evidence adduced by defendants and substantially prejudiced the right of 
the plaintiffs to a fair trial (CPLR 2002). 
Accordingly, plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the jury verdict and for a new trial is granted. Counsel 
for the parties are directed to contact the clerk of Part 4 in order to arrange a trial date. 
The foregoing constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
DATED: December 20, 2001 
DEC 20 2001 ENTER: 
4 [* 5]
