330 Acquisition Co., LLC v Regency Savings Bank,
F.S.B.
2000 NY Slip Op 30000(U)
April 1, 2000
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: _300109/2831
Judge: Leland G. DeGrasse
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.0 3 
0 0 k 
.. 
n 
MOTlONlCASE IS RESPECTFULLY REFERRED TO 
JUSTICE 
a .. 
;", 2 
0 z 
n 
2 D 
- 
I- C 
-0 0 a 
5 
(D rc 
---h 
(f. 
2 
0. a 
vi 
b 
x 
- 
ox 
UP zz 
2 m m [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT : STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK : I.A.S. PART 25 
X ...................... 
330 ACQUISITION CO., LLC, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
REGENCY SAVINGS BANK, F.S.B. Index No. : 
109283/98 
Cal. No.:131 Of 
12/20/01 
DeGrasse, J. : 
Plaintiff in this action arising from a dispute between 
the owners of a $15 million mortgage loan moves to dismiss 
defendant's third, fourth and fifth counterclaims. 
Defendant has stipulated to the dismissal of its third 
counterclaim, so the court is left to decide 
plaintiff's motion 
only with respect to the fourth and fifth counterclaims 
FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
This action is the latest chapter in ongoing litigation 
between the parties in state and federal court. The history of 
this dispute is discussed in Justice 
 Lippman's February 5, 2001 
unpublished decision in this case, and in Judge 
Scheindlin's 
decisions in a related federal action 
 (see Reqencv Savings Bank, 
F.S.B. v Fours on Seventh, LLC, 251 BR 784) and will be briefly 
summarized herein. 
On March 15, 1989, the 
parties' two predecessors in 
interest entered into a Participation Agreement by which each party 
owned 50% of a $15 million loan secured by a mortgage on a 
commercial building located at 330 Seventh Avenue in Manhattan. [* 2 ]
Under the Participation Agreement, non-party John Hancock Mutual 
Life Insurance Policy was the active participant, and American 
Savings Bank, and later the FDIC, was the passive participant. 
Plaintiff 330 Acquisition Corp. (''330 
Corp.tl) has succeeded to 
Hancock's role as the active participant and defendant Regency 
Savings Bank, F.S.B. ("Regency") has succeeded the FDIC as the 
passive participant. 
As the active participant, 330 Corp. is responsible for 
taking most 
Itdecisions and actions relating to the administration 
of the Loan." However, it must obtain the consent of the passive 
participant before it, inter alia, releases or substitutes any 
material portion of the security for the loan, extends the maturity 
date of the loan, or reduces the interest payable on the principal 
amount of the loan. Upon default, 330 Corp. had the power to act 
as the attorney in fact on behalf of the passive participant and 
was responsible for bringing an action in foreclosure. 
When the mortgagor defaulted in 1996, the passive 
participant in the Participation Agreement (at the time, the FDIC) , 
apparently frustrated with what it perceived as 
Hancock's inaction, 
attempted to bring a foreclosure action in federal court. Soon 
thereafter 330 Corp. purchased the active participant's share in 
the Participation Agreement and brought a foreclosure action in 
state court. Thereafter the FDIC sold its interest in the 
Participation Agreement to Regency. 
330 Corp. brought the instant action in 1998, arguing 
that the FDIC's transfer of its interest to Regency was void 
2 [* 3 ]
because the FDIC did not offer 330 Corp. a right of first refusal, 
which 330 Corp. argued was mandated by the Participation Agreement. 
Regency asserted counterclaims arising from 330 C0rp.I~ alleged 
breach of the Participation Agreement. 
In January 2000, the borrower under the loan filed for 
Chapter 11 protection in Bankruptcy Court. The initial plan of 
reorganization filed by the borrower included a settlement of its 
claims under the loan. Regency filed its own proof of claim in the 
Bankruptcy action. Ultimately Regency's claim in the Bankruptcy 
Court was rejected as untimely and dismissed as moot pursuant to 
 In 
re Chateausay Corp. (10 F3d 944). (& In Re Fours on Seventh, 251 
BR 784.) In her decision Judge Scheindlin expressly did not reach 
the disputed issues that are litigated herein. 
 (Id. 251 BR at 
795. ) 
Meanwhile this action continued to move forward. In a 
decision dated February 5, 2001, Justice 
Lippman granted Regency's 
motion to dismiss the complaint, and denied 330 
Corp.Is motion for 
summary judgment to dismiss 
Regency's counterclaims. Thus the only 
claims left in the case are Regency's counterclaims. Regency filed 
an amended answer with counterclaims in August 2001, which is the 
subject of 330 
Corp.'s instant motion. 
DISCUSSION 
Regency's fourth counterclaim alleges that 330 Corp. 
breached its fiduciary duties to Regency. This claim fails because 
Regency has not alleged sufficient facts tending to show that a 
3 [* 4 ]
fiduciary relationship existed between the parties. 
While New York 
Jurisprudence2d contains a terse statement 
that the active participant in a Participation Agreement acts in a 
fiduciary capacity toward the passive participant 
(a 78 New York 
Jurisprudence 2d, Mortgages, 5 277) that statement is not a 
completely correct summary of the law. Rather, it is the written 
terms of the Participation Agreement that determines whether a 
fiduciary relationship exists between the participants. (See Banco 
EsPanol de Credito v Security Pacific National Bank, 763 F Supp 36, 
45, affld 973 F2d 51, cert. denied 509 US 903.) 
Here, the Participation Agreement does not contain 
language indicating that 330 Corp. acted as Regency's fiduciary. 
The Participation Agreement does not describe the active 
participant as the 
l'agentl' or 
'ltrusteelt of the passive participant. 
(cf. Chemical Bank v Security Pacific National Bank, 20 F3d 375.) 
Moreover, section 3.1 of the Participation Agreement 
provides that: 
[Nleither Participant shall be liable to 
the other for any loss not due to its own 
gross negligence or willful misconduct, 
but all loss or losses incurred in 
connection with the Notes or the 
Mortgages, whether in connection with the 
enforcement thereof or otherwise, shall 
be borne ratably by the Participants in 
accordance with their respective 
interests. 
A standard of gross negligence or willful misconduct does not 
describe the duty of a fiduciary, which, in Judge 
Cardozols famous 
formulation is 
"[nlot honesty alone, but the punctilio of an honor 
the most sensitive. " 
(Meinard v Salmon, 249 NY 458, 464; see Gibbs 
4 [* 5 ]
v Breed, Abbott & Morqan, 271 AD2d 180.) A similar standard of 
liability was embodied in the participation agreement in Banco 
Espanol de Credito, (supra 763 F Supp at 38) and the court found 
that no fiduciary relationship existed between the active and 
passive partners to that agreement. 
The fact that 330 Corp. has power of attorney to act on 
Regency's behalf in the event of a default is not, standing alone, 
indicative of a fiduciary relationship. A fiduciary relationship 
will not be created by the conferral of such a power where the lead 
entity acts on its own behalf as well as that of the passive 
entity. 
 (See Louros v Cyr, 175 F Supp2d 497; Northwestern National 
Ins. Co. v Alberts, 769 F Supp 498, 508.) Regency points to other 
duties imposed on 330 Corp. by the Participation Agreement, 
including the duty to obtain Regency's approval before hiring 
counsel in a foreclosure proceeding, the duty to keep Regency 
apprised of events in the foreclosure action, and the duty not to 
compromise on various aspects of the loan without Regency's written 
consent. These various duties are contractual in nature and merely 
embody an allocation of rights and responsibilities between parties 
in an arms-length transaction. They do not create a fiduciary 
relationship. 
 (See Banco Esvanol de Credito, 763 F Supp at 45.) 
Defendant's fifth counterclaim sounds in unjust 
enrichment. This claim fails as defendant has not alleged that 330 
Corp. has been unjustly enriched by the monies obtained from the 
mortgagor. Rather, a sum is currently held in escrow that 
represents the amount due the passive participant of the 
5 [* 6 ]
Participation Agreement. There is no allegation in the complaint 
tending to show that 330 Corp. somehow received funds due Regency. 
(See Giant Supply Corp. v New York, 248 AD2d 231.) 
CONCLUSION 
Plaintiff's motion to dismiss the fourth and fifth 
counterclaims is granted. The third counterclaim has been 
withdrawn by stipulation. This constitutes the decision and order 
of the court. 
DATE : 
J.S.C. 
6 [* 7 ]
