People v Liston
2000 NY Slip Op 30006(U)
November 22, 2000
Sup Ct, Kings County
Docket Number: 6457-2009
Judge: Jr., Guy J. Mangano
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.1SUPR EME COURT OF T HE STATE OF  NEW YORK Decision and Order
COUNTY OF  KINGS: CRI MINAL  TERM: PAR T 13 Indictment No: 6457-2009
--------------------------------------------------------------------X 
PEOPL E OF  THE STATE OF  NEW YORK Joshua E. Hor owitz, Esq.
 For the Def endant
 
 -against- James Mag ee, E sq.
 Assistant District Attorney
 For the People
 
ALEXIS LISTON Hon. Guy  J. Mang ano, Jr.
--------------------------------------------------------------------X Dated: Nove mber 22, 2011
By notice of motion date d May 20, 2011, the People petition this Court f or an or der pur suant
to Correc tion L aw § 168-o (3), to upw ardly  modify  defendant’s sexual offe nder r isk level status from
Level I to Level II.
FINDING S OF F ACT
The fa cts in this mat ter are g leane d from the c ourt’s file, a s well as the swor n testimony
adduce d at the trial pre sided over by  this Court from March 29, 2011 to Apr il 5, 2011.  
On Fe bruar y 19, 1999, defe ndant pled g uilty to one count of Sexual Abuse in the First De gree
(Penal L aw § 130.65)  and one c ount of Endang ering  the W elfare of a Child (Penal L aw § 260.10)
under I ndictment Number 10217- 1998.  The c harges in that case  alleg ed a two y ear sexual
relationshi p between defe ndant and his y oung er ha lf-sister, fr om September 1996 to September
1998, when de fenda nt was betwe en 16 and 18 years old and the victim was between 7 a nd 9 y ears
old.  Defendant repeatedly forced the victim to have sexual intercourse, as well as oral and anal sex.
After each offense, defendant would thr eaten to kill the victim if she divulged the relationship to
anyone.  I n October  1998, the vi ctim informed her mother a bout defe ndant’s conduc t and def endant
was a rrested and ultimately charged with two counts of Rape in the First Degree (Penal Law §[* 1]
2130.35), four  counts of Course of  Sexual Conduct Ag ainst a Child (Penal Law § 130.75), one c ount
of Incest in the  Third Degree (Penal Law § 255.25), two counts of Sexual Abuse in the F irst Deg ree
(Penal L aw § 130.65)  and four  counts of Enda ngering  the Welfare  of a Child (Penal L aw § 260.10) .
Defendant a dmitted his guilt to one count of Sexual Abuse in the Fir st Deg ree and one c ount of
Endangering the Wel fare of a Child, and he ascribed his motivation as a way of striking back at his
fathe r and stepmother .  He wa s sentence d to six  months of inc arceration a nd five years of proba tion,
and adjudica ted as a  Level I  sex offender  pursuant to sec tion 168-n of the Correction L aw (Sex
Offender Reg istration Act [S ORA]).
Defendant’ s additional contac t with the criminal ju stice sy stem includes a Nove mber 16,
2000 conviction for Criminal Possession of Bur glar’s Tools (Pena l Law § 140.35), for which he
received a  sentenc e of ten day s in jail.  On Januar y 12, 2001, defendant was convicted of Criminal
Mischief in the F ourth Deg ree  (Penal L aw § 145.00) and was sentenc ed to one y ear of inca rceration.
Defendant wa s therea fter c onvicted of Crimi nal Possession of Stol en Proper ty in the Third Deg ree
(Penal L aw § 165.50) on January 29, 2002, and sentenced to 1 ½ to 3 years of incarceration.  On
Marc h 5, 2007, defe ndant was a gain convicte d of Criminal Mischief in the F ourth Deg ree (Penal
Law § 145.00)  and sente nced to  time served, and on Nove mber 20, 2007, he  was c onvicted of
Aggravated Unlicense d Oper ation of a Motor Vehicle  in the  Third Degree (Vehicle and Tra ffic L aw
§ 511 [1] ) and se ntence d to a conditional dischar ge and a  $500 fine.  
In the instant matter, def endant was c harged with five c ounts of Rape in the Third D egree
(Penal L aw § 130.35) , sixteen counts of Sexual Mis conduct ( Penal L aw § 130.20) , eleve n counts of
Criminal Sexual Act in the Third Degree (Penal Law § 130.40), nineteen counts of Sexual Abuse
in the Third Degree (Penal Law § 130.55) and one count of Endangering the Wel fare of a Child[* 2]
3(Penal L aw § 260.10).  These cha rges stem from then 29 y ear old defe ndant’s “c onsensual” se xual
relationship with the 16 year old vic tim, Shonda Blanks.  It was alleg ed by the People that from
March through July , 2009, defendant en gaged in se xual intercourse, as well as oral and anal sex with
the minor victim.  Defe ndant was a rrested afte r the victim outcried to a  family  friend w ho notified
the vi ctim’s fathe r of the relationship.  After  a jury  trial presided ove r by this Court, defendant wa s
found guilty  on April 5, 2011, of Endange ring the W elfare of a Child, a Class A Misdemeanor , and
acquitted of  all the fe lony sex crimes.  Defe ndant has not y et bee n sentenc ed in this matter.
On April 7, 2011, Shonda Blanks, the victim in this  matter, re ceive d text  messag es from an
unknown telephone  number a sking her to ca ll that number.  Acc ording  to the People’s moving
paper s, after  receiving  several text m essag es from the unidentified per son, Ms. Blanks c alled the
number a nd defe ndant answe red the  phone.  De fenda nt told Ms. Blanks that he still had fee lings for
her a nd what he sa id in court was a  lie.  On April 19, 2011, at appr oximately  2:00 a.m., Ms. Blanks
received two a dditional tex t messag es from defe ndant which state d:
Shonda just tell me if you do not want to ever  talk to me ag ain y es or
no beca use I  love y ou and I  need to know ple ase.
Alex
and
Or of you have a nother boy  friend just say  so and I  will never te xt or
call you again if that is what you want just say so.  maybe if I could
explain.
Alex
The victim repor ted the conta ct to the assig ned assistant District Attorney , James  Magee, who
advised her to file a criminal complaint with the 75 Police Precinct.  Based upon the complaint,th
defendant stands charged with one count of Criminal Contempt in the First Degree (Penal Law §[* 3]
4215.51), a Class E Felony, as we ll as one count of Criminal Contempt in the Second De gree (Penal
Law § 215.50), two counts of Aggravated Harassment in the  Second De gree (Penal L aw § 240.30) ,
Class A Misdemeanor s, and one count of Harassment i n the S econd Deg ree (Penal L aw § 240.26) ,
a violation. 
Upon re ceipt of the  People’s motion, this C ourt forw arded same to the B oard of  Examiners
of Sex Offende rs for the  State of New York.  By letter da ted Aug ust 25, 2011, a Boa rd Examiner
interposed a  response  which supported the recommendation by  the di strict attorney  that defe ndant’s
risk assessment level be raised from Level I to Level II designation.  Of note in the Board’s response
was its reference to a clinical evaluation of defendant which was completed on February 9, 1999, just
prior to his sentencing  for the se x crimes a gainst his step-sister, at the F orensic Psy chiatry  Clini c for
the Criminal and Supreme Courts, indi cating  that defe ndant had a n anti-social pe rsonality  disorder.
The e valuation opined that defendant’s inappr opriate se xual beha vior appe ared to have be en
motivated by anger as opposed to a pathological attraction to young girls.  Defendant appeared to
lack g enuine r emorse f or his action and his leng thy criminal record validated the pe rsonality  disorder
diagnosis. 
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Pursuant to section 168-o(3)  of the Corre ction L aw,
[t]he district attorney  may  file a  petition to modify  the level of
notification for a  sex offender with the sentencing  court . . . whe re the
sex offender  (a) has bee n convicted of a ne w crime, or there  has bee n
a determination after a proceeding pursuant to section 410.70 of the
criminal p rocedure la w or sec tion two hundred fifty -nine-I  of the
executive law that  the sex offende r has violated one  or more
conditions imposed as part of a sentenc e of a conditional dischar ge,
probation, par ole or post-re lease  supervision for a  desig nated c rime,
and (b)  the conduc t underly ing the  new c rime or the violation is of a[* 4]
5nature  that indicates a n incre ased r isk of a re peat se x offense. 
Whil e the People reference the text me ssages ma de by defendant to the victim af ter the trial as a
considera tion for war ranting  upwar d modification, defe ndant has not y et bee n sentenc ed in the
instant matter and ther efore cannot lega lly violate a c ondition of sentence  as conte mplated by  the
statute.  However, while this Court will not con sider this subs equent co mmu nication with the victim,
by virtue of the fact that defenda nt ha s been convicted of  a new  crime, this Court may  enter tain the
People’s applica tion for upwar d modification.  
To upwar dly modify  a sex offende r’s risk a ssessment level, the People be ar the  burden of
proof by  clear and convincing  evidenc e that the underly ing c onduct of the ne w crime is of a natur e
that indicates a n incre ased r isk of rec idivist  behavior  (see People v Wy att, __ AD3d __; 931 NYS2d
85; People v Turpea u, 68 AD3d 1083, lv denied 14 NY3d 705; see also People v Greene, 83 A D3d
1304, lv de nied 17 NY3d 706).  B oth the People and the Court must adhe re to the statutory  scheme 
set forth in se ction 168-o (3) and (4) of the Correc tion L aw, including the require ments that the
People file a petition with the Court, which the Court forwards to the Board of Ex aminers o f Sex
Offenders for that body’s “recomm endation pertaining to the sex offender,” and the Court conducts
an evide ntiary  hear ing to de termine the pe tition (see People v Da mato, 58 AD3d 819).   
 Based upon the foregoing, the People and this Court correctly followed the statutory
require ments for upwa rd modification of defendant’s sex  offender risk level status.  Moreove r, since
“[f]acts pre viously  proven a t trial or elicited a t the time of entry  of a ple a of g uilty shall be dee med
established by  clear and convincing  evidenc e” (Correction Law § 16 8-n[3];  see also People v Wy att,
supra; People v Wright, 78 AD3d 1437, lv denied 11 NY3d 710; P eople v Rollins, 33 AD3d 398,[* 5]
6lv denied 8 NY3d 803) , the need for any further  evidentiar y hearings is vitiated.  This Court presided
over the trial and hea rd all of the e vidence .  In finding  defe ndant g uilty of endang ering  the welf are
of a child, the jury was satisfied beyond a re asonable doubt that defendant engaged in inappropriate
physical contact with the  then mi nor victim.  Wh ile there is a gap in between defendant’s first
sexually  offending c riminal conduct and the instant ma tter, def endant spe nt a sig nificant a mount of
that time incarcerated due to h is six cr iminal convictions.  Finally, despite the fact tha t this
conviction does not qual ify as a r egisterable se x offe nse (se e Correc tion L aw § 168–a [2]  ), the
nature  of the unde rlying c onduct t owar d the victim is sufficient to establish, by  clear and c onvincing
evidenc e (see Correc tion L aw § 168–o [3] ), that defenda nt is at an incre ased r isk of recidivism  (see
People v Gre en, supra ).  De fendant has demonstrated an inability to c onform his behavior to
society’s laws and has re-offended sexually, despite previous detention and sanctions.
According ly, the People’s petition is grante d and defenda nt’s Sex  Offe nder Reg istration Act
risk assessment status is here by raised f rom L evel I  to Level I I. 
This shall constitute the Decision and Order of the Cou rt.
 ______________________________
 HON. GUY J. M ANGANO, JR.
 JUSTI CE O F THE SU PREME COURT[* 6]
