Matter of Polish S.S. Co. v Bay Ocean Mgt., Inc.
2000 NY Slip Op 30010(U)
January 6, 2000
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 604130/99
Judge: Louis B. York
Cases posted with a "30000" identifier, i.e., 2013 NY Slip
Op30001 (U), are republished from various New York
State and local government sources, including the New
York State Unified Court System's eCourts Service.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 2 ----------------------------------------x In the Matter of the Arbitration 
Between 
POLISH STEAMSHIP COMPANY and ZEGLUGA 
POLSKA, s .A. I 
Petitioners, 
-against-
BAY OCEAN MANAGEMENT, INC., 
Respondent. Index No. 60413-0/99 
seq;:uence No ~::'.:~:~bl 
.. ,,. · .. ·· 
----------------------------------------x :~··. 
-'I ""'~ 
r,. ·~ 
Louis B. York, J.: ' ... , 
By Order to Show Cause dated September 2, 1999, petitioners 
Polish Steamship Company ("Polsteam") and Zegluga Polska S.A. 
("Zegluga") seek an order: 1) disqualifying the law firm of 
Seward & Kissel LLP ("Seward & Kissel") from representing 
respondent Bay Ocean Management, Inc. ("Bay Ocean") in an 
arbitration proceeding in New York County before the Society of 
Maritime Arbitrators entitled In The Matter of the Arbitration 
between Polish Steamship Company and Zegluga Polska S.A.-and-Bay 
Ocean Management, Inc.; and 2) enjoining, pendente lite, Seward 
& Kissel from representing and taking any action on behalf of Bay 
Ocean in the arbitration proceeding. 
According to petitioners, Polsteam is a Polish corporation 
engaged, inter alia, in the operation of ocean-going vessels for 
the carriage of freight. Zegluga is a Polish corporation also 
engaged, inter alia, in the operation of ocean-going vessels for 
the carriage of freight. Bay Ocean is a Delaware corporation [* 1]
engaged, inter alia, in the management of ocean-going vessels. 
Petitioners state that Polsteam and Bay Ocean entered into two 
written joint venture agreements. Pursuant to the first agreement, 
dated April 30, 1991, Polsteam and Bay Ocean formed the Baltic­
Atlantic Shipping Company V.O.F. ("BASC"), a Netherlands Antilles 
general partnership. Thereafter, pursuant to an agreement dated 
February 26, 1993, Polsteam, Zegluga and Bay Ocean form the Baltic­
Atlantic Shipping Company II V. O. F. ( "BASC II") , also a Netherlands 
Antilles general partnership. BASC and BASC II each have issued to 
them certificates representing shares in certain subsidiary 
corporations organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands (the 
"Marshall Islands Corporations"). The purpose of each of the 
Marshall Islands Corporations is to own and operate a single ocean­
going vessel and each corporation was named for the vessel that it 
owned. Pursuant to individual Vessel Management Agreements, Bay 
Ocean managed each vessel on behalf of whichever joint venture, 
BASC or BASC II, owned the given vessel. 
According to petitioners, at various times, Seward & Kissel 
acted as the attorney for BASC and BASC II and for the Marshall 
Islands Corporations on various matters, including the sale and 
financing of vessels for the individual Marshall Islands 
corporations. Petitioners assert that Seward & Kissel also 
performed legal services directly for Polsteam on issues arising 
from BASC and BASC II and the Marshall Islands Corporations. 
Petitioners state that, at some point, a dispute arose 
between Polsteam and Zegluga on the one hand and Bay Ocean on the [* 2]
other, concerning, inter alia: 1) the management of the vessels 
owned by the Marshall Islands Corporations; 2) an accounting of 
the revenues earned by the individual vessels and the Marshall 
Islands Corporations, and, ultimately, by BASC and BASC II; and 
3) the composition of the Boards of Directors and Officers of 
each of the individual Marshall Islands Corporations. Both of the 
Joint Venture agreements as well as the individual Vessel 
Management Agreements provided for submission of all disputes to 
arbitration. 
By letter dated June 18, 1999, Polsteam and Zegluga notified 
Bay Ocean of their demand for arbitration in New York, pursuant 
to the agreements. By letter dated June 28, 1999, Seward & Kissel 
appeared on behalf of Bay Ocean, denying that Bay Ocean: 1) was 
in breach of the Joint Venture agreements; 2) had failed to 
provide reports and other documents pursuant to the Vessel 
Management Agreements; and 3) had failed to cooperate in issues 
of corporate governance and structure, including the changing of 
members of the boards of directors of the individual Marshall 
Islands corporations. 
In letters dated June 29, 1999 and August 11, 1999, Polsteam 
and Zegluga requested that Seward & Kissel withdraw from 
representing Bay Ocean in the arbitration because a conflict 
existed with Seward & Kissel's current and prior representation 
of Polsteam, BASC, BASC II and the Marshall Islands Corporations. 
However, in letters dated July 7, 1999 and August 12, 1999, 
Seward & Kissel declined to withdraw as counsel for Bay Ocean, [* 3]
stating that no conflict existed, and asserting that even when 
counsel for a joint venture represents one of the joint venturers 
in a subsequent dispute. Petitioners now seek an order 
disqualifying Seward & Kissel as counsel for Bay Ocean in the 
arbitration proceeding. 
Whether to disqualify an attorney from representing a client 
raises two competing but important concerns. On the one hand, 
"[d)isqualification of counsel conflicts with the general policy 
favoring a party's right to representation by counsel of choice, 
and it deprives current clients of an attorney familiar with the 
particular matter." (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d 123, 
131; see, Solow v Grace & Co., 83 NY2d· 303, 309-310; s & s Hotel 
Ventures Ltd. Partnership v 777 s. H. Corp., 69 NY2d 437, 443). 
Moreover, disqualification motions are sometimes used by a party 
in an effort to gain a strategic advantage over his or her 
adversary. (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d at 133-134; 
see, S & s Hotel Ventures Ltd. Partnership v 777 s. H. Corp., 69 
NY2d at 443). 
On the other hand, it is well-settled that "[a)ttorneys owe 
fiduciary duties of both confidentiality and loyalty to their 
clients." (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d at 130; see, 
Solow v Grace & Co., 83 NY2d at 306). Thus, "[a)s a general rule, 
where an attorney represents multiple clients and a situation 
arises posing a potential conflict between them in connection 
with his representation, he may not undertake the representation 
of either against the other unless it is shown either that no [* 4]
actual conflict exists or that such continued involvement is with 
the full consent of all parties upon complete disclosure." 
(Matter of Hof, 102 AD2d 591; see Bianchi v. Mille, AD2d 
NYS2d , 12/1/99 NYLJ p. 32 at col.2 [2d Dept. 1999); 
Dolgoff v. Projectvision. Inc., 235 AD2d 311). Moreover, 
attorneys "'must avoid not only the fact, but even the 
appearance, of representing conflicting interests.'" (Tekni-Plex 
v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d at 130; Cardinale v. Golinello, 43 
NY2d 288, 296; see also, Code of Professional Responsibility 
Canon 9). 
"Even after representation has concluded, a lawyer may not 
reveal information confided by a former client, or use such 
information to the disadvantage of the f orrner client or the 
advantage of a third party. (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 
NY2d at 130, citing, Code of Professional Responsibility DR 4-101 
[B] (22 NYCRR 1200.19 (b)];· see also, Code of Professional 
Responsibility DR 5-108 [A] [2] (22 NYCRR 1200.27 (a) (2)]). "In 
accordance with these duties, the Code (of Professional 
Responsibility] precludes attorneys from representing interests 
adverse to a former client on matters substantially related to 
the prior representation." (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 
NY2d at 130). DR 5-108 provides that: 
(A) Except with the consent of a former client after full 
disclosure a lawyer who has represented the former client 
in a matter shall not: 
1. Thereafter represent another person in the same 
or a substantially related matter in which that 
person's interests are materially adverse to the 
interests of the former client." [* 5]
(See, Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d at 130-131). 
Therefore, when a party seeks to disqualify its adversary's 
attorney under DR 5-108 (A) (1), it must prove: (1) the existence 
of a prior attorney-client relationship between the moving party 
and opposing counsel, (2} that the matters involved in both 
representations are substantially related, and (3) that the 
interests of the present client and former client are materially 
adverse (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 89 NY2d at 131; see, 
Solow v Grace & Co., 83 NY2d at 308). "Satisfaction of these 
three criteria by the moving party gives rise to an irrebuttable 
presumption of disqualification.". (Tekni-Plex v. Meyner & Landis, 
89 NY2d at 131; see, Solow v Grace & Co., 83 NY2d at 309). 
In the case at hand, petitioners initially assert that 
Seward & Kissel must be disqualified because it continues to 
directly represent Polsteam on matters outside of BASC or BASC 
II. In response, Seward & Kissel acknowledges that from July of 
1997 to November of 1998, it represented Polsteam with respect to 
five transactions. However, it asserts that those transactions 
were unrelated to BASC or BASC II, and that they are no longer 
ongoing. Although Polsteam asserts that Seward & Kissel continues 
to represent them in matters outside of the joint ventures, it 
has not set forth evidence of any specific matters, unrelated to 
the joint ventures, in which it is currently represented by 
Seward & Kissel. Therefore, petitioners have not demonstrated 
that Seward & Kissel should be disqualified merely because of its 
prior representation of Polsteam. [* 6]
Petitioners have demonstrated, however, that Seward & Kissel 
must be disqualified because its representation of Bay Ocean in 
the arbitration proceeding against Polsteam and Zegluga conflicts 
with its continuing representation of BASC and BASC II, in which 
Polsteam and Zegluga are co-venturers with Bay Ocean. 
First, it is clear that Seward & Kissel has represented the 
joint ventures for many years. Seward & Kissel states that it has 
represented Bay Ocean for more than six years in over thirty 
transactions. Significantly, Seward & Kissel concedes that in 
approximately three-quarters of those transactions, it 
represented Bay Ocean while Bay Ocean was acting in its capacity 
as the managing joint venturer either for BASC, in which Polsteam 
was the co-venturer with Bay Ocean, or for BASC II, in which 
Polsteam and Zegluga were the co-venturers with Bay Ocean. 
According to Seward & Kissel, its legal services involved the 
organization of the Marshall Islands corporations, which were 
organized by the joint venturers as a means of operating various 
ocean-going vessels. Seward & Kissel also aided the joint 
venturers in negotiating and preparing the legal documentation 
needed to effectuate the purchase and financing of the vessels by 
the various Marshall Islands corporations. Thus, it is clear that 
the services provided by s~ward & Kissel were on behalf of the 
joint ventures and not merely for Bay Ocean. 
Second, neither Bay Ocean nor Seward & Kissel deny 
petitioner's contention that Seward & Kissel's fees for its 
services to BASC and BASC II were paid with funds from the joint [* 7]
ventures, rather than from Bay Ocean's own funds. Respondents 
merely assert that, even if true, thi~ would not create an 
attorney-client relationship between the firm and Polsteam or 
Zegluga. 
Finally, neither Bay Ocean nor Seward & Kissel denies 
petitioners' contention that Seward & Kissel continues to 
represent BASC and BASC II. Therefore, the court finds that since 
Seward & Kissel continues to represent the two joint ventures in 
which petitioners are members, it is inappropriate for the firm 
to represent petitioners' co-venturer, Bay Ocean, in an 
adversarial proceeding which arises from the operation of the 
joint ventures and the agreements which govern them. (See, 
Bianchi v. Mille, ~-AD2d ~-' ~-NYS2d ~-' 12/1/99 NYLJ p. 32 
at col.2 (2d Dept. 1999]; Dolgoff v. Projectvision. Inc., 235 
AD2d 311; Matter of Hof, 102 AD2d 591). The court also notes that 
the appearance of a conflict is especially heightened in this 
case because Seward & Kissel has previously represented Polsteam 
on at least five occasions outside of the joint ventures. 
Bay Ocean argues that petitioners are attempting to gain a 
strategic advantage here by moving to disqualify its counsel on 
the eve of the arbitration. However, as noted above, petitioners 
notified Bay Ocean of their belief that a conflict existed and 
requested that Seward & Kissel withdraw as counsel on June 29, 
1999, the day after the firm first appeared on behalf of Bay 
Ocean in regards to the arbitration. Petitioners reiterated that 
request on August 11, 1999 and when it was not honored, they [* 8]
promptly moved on September 2, 1999 to disqu~lify Seward & Kissel 
as counsel. Therefore, it cannot be said that petitioners have 
attempted to gain an unfair advantage by requesting the relief 
sought herein. Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that petitioners' motion to disqualify the law firm 
of Seward & Kissel from representing respondent in the 
arbitration proceeding entitled In The Matter of the Arbitration 
between Polish Steamship Company and Zegluga Polska S.A.-and-Bay 
Ocean Management. Inc. is granted. 
DATED: / ( 6 /HJ ENTER: 
J.S.C. 
\, 
.. 
' [* 9]
