Matter of Meyer v S & Alb Constr. Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30060(U)
August 22, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 124283/00
Judge: Martin Schoenfeld
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 28 
X 
In the Matter of the Application of RISA MEYER, ..................................... 
Petitioner, 
For an Order Summarily Discharging of 
Record Notices of Mechanics Lien Filed 
by S & ALB CONSTRUCTION INC. d/b/a 
S & A CONSTRUCTION and by A & 2 STORE 
FRONTS, INC., 
Respondents. INDEX NO. 124283/00 
DECISION AND ORDER 
+m/ 
-x .................................... 
MARTIN SCHOENFELD, J.: 
In this special proceeding petitioner Risa Meyer seeks to vacate mechanic’s liens 
totaling $286,000 filed against petitioner’s real property by respondents S & Alb Construction Inc. 
(d/b/a S & A Construction) (“S & A”) and A & Z Store Fronts, Inc. (“A & Z”). Petitioner now 
moves, pursuant to Lien Law 0 19 and New York City Administrative Code (“Administrative 
Code”) Title 20, Chapter 2, Subchapter 22, for the relief demanded in the petition. For the reasons 
set forth herein, the petition is denied and dismissed and the clerk is directed to enter judgment 
accordingly. 
Backrrround 
Petitioner is the owner of the five-story townhouse located at and known as 10 East 67th 
-1- [* 1 ]
Street, New York, NY. In December 1997 the building was, apparently, occupied by petitioner's 
parents-Catalina Meyer ("Catalina") and Alvin Meyer ("Alvin"). That month the building was 
substantially damaged by a fire in which Catalina perished. In December 1999 S & A contracted 
with Catalina's estate, represented by Barbara Jaffee ("Jaffee"), to repair and renovate the building 
(see Moving Exhibit 1). S & A hired a subcontractor which, in tum, hired A & Z to do some of the 
work. In 2000 respondents worked on the building and received payments in the form of checks 
(Moving Exhibit 3) from "The Estate of Catalina K. Meyer." 
On October 25, 2000, Catalina's estate terminated S & A's contract allegedly because of 
S & A's failure to cure certain defaults. On November 14,2000, S & A filed a mechanic's lien 
(Moving Exhbit 4) against the building for $280,000 and A & Z filed a lien for $6,000 (Moving 
Exhibit 5). Petitioner argues that the liens must be vacated because Administrative Code 0 20-387 
bars S & A and A & Z from collecting payment for or enforcing any liens based upon any home 
improvement work done by them since neither is licensed by the City's Department of Consumer 
Affairs. S & A and A & Z do not dispute they are unlicensed; rather, they argue that the 
proscriptive Administrative Code provision does not apply in this instance because (i) the work 
they performed was not within the ambit of the statute, (ii) petitioner is not an "owner" as defined 
in the Administrative Code, and (iii) the building is n9t petitioner's residence. 
Administrative Code 
Administrative Code 0 20-387(a) provides that "[nlo person shall solicit, . . . perform or [* 2 ]
obtain a home improvement contract as a contractor or salesperson from an owner without a 
license therefor." A contractor that fails to comply with 9 20-387(a) "may neither enforce a home 
improvement contract against an owner nor seek recovery in quantum meruit." Blake Electric 
Contracting, Co.. Inc. v. Paschall, 222 AD2d 264, 266 (1st Dept 1995). A mechanick lien asserted 
by an unlicensed home improvement contractor must be vacated. See Chosen Construction Corp. - v. Svz, 138 AD2d 284,286 (1"Dept 1988). 
Construction of a New Home 
Administrative Code 0 20-386(2) defines a "home improvement" as "the construction, 
repair, replacement, remodeling, alteration, conversion, rehabilitation, renovation, modernization, 
improvement, or addition to any land or building, or that portion thereof whch is used or 
designed to be used as a residence or dwelling place." The statute excludes "the construction of a 
new home or building" (w). The work at issue included demolishing floors, ceilings, and walls 
on all five floors; removing skylights, ductwork and floor joists; installing new floors, insulation, 
stairs, doors, windows, a skylight, fire escapes and moldings; and fixing the exterior of the 
building. Such work falls within the Administrative Code's definition of home improvement. 
"The statutory exemption for 'construction of a new home' is limited to the creation of a structure, 
where none previously existed, that is to be used for residential purposes. Even if a dwelling is 
stripped to the frame and rebuilt, the work constitutes the renovation of an existing home, not the 
erection of a new one." Blake Electric Contractinq Co.. Inc. v. Paschall, 222 AD2d 264, 266 (lst 
-3 - [* 3 ]
Dept 1995). 
"Owner" of the Building 
Administrative Code 0 20-386(4) defines "owner" as "any homeowner, cooperative 
shareholder, condominium unit owner, tenant, or any other person who orders, contracts for or 
purchases the home improvement services of a contractor or the person entitled to the 
performance of the work of a contractor pursuant to a home improvement contract." Legal title to 
the building appears to have been in a state of flux since the property came into the possession of 
petitioner's family. Catalina acquired the building in September 1982 (Jaffee Exhibit 2). In 
January 1984 Catalina transferred it to herself and petitioner as tenants in common. In Catalina's 
will, which was probated in April 1998, Catalina bequeathed a life estate in the building to Alvin 
and the remainder interest to petitioner. In August 1998, petitioner and Alvin renounced their 
interest in Catalina's estate per Internal Revenue Code 5 25 18 (Jaffee Exhibit 3). In September 
2000 petitioner, individually and as executrix of Catalina's estate, and Alvin, as beneficiary of the 
estate, jointly conveyed their interest in the building to petitioner as an individual (Jaffee Exhibit 
2). Petitioner appears to qualify as an "owner." 
Use of Building as Residence 
To come within the statute's protection petitioner must show the building's use "as a 
residence or dwelling place." Administrative Code 9 386(2). "The term 'owners' ... does not 
-4- [* 4 ]
apply to speculators and real estate investors who have no intention of residing in the subject 
premises. These latter classes of individuals are business people who have other remedies 
available to them and who may not rely on consumer-type statutes for protection." Routier v 
Waldeck, 184 Misc 2d 487,490 (Nassau Dist Ct 2000). Petitioner states (Supplemental Affidavit 
7 4) that her parents had lived in the building since 1983 and (7 5) that the building was her own 
primary residence from 1983 through 1993. However, these sworn statements seem contradicted 
by the documentary evidence submitted by petitioner: the 1984 indenture (Jaffee Exhibit 2, at 3rd 
page) states that both petitioner and Catalina live at 100 Central Park South. Petitioner also states 
(Supplemental Affidavit 
throughout the period of work on the building. Yet, the 2000 indenture (Jaffee Exhibit 2, at Sh 
and 6h pages) lists both petitioner and Alvin as residents of 100 Central Park South, Apt 13A. 8) that she and Alvin lived in the building in December 1999 and 
Furthermore, the parties' submissions indicate that petitioner intended to renovate the 
building in order to make it an income-producing vehicle rather than a residence. S & A's 
president states (Albo Answering Affidavit 77 8-9, 11, 13; Albo Reply affidavit 87 12-13) that 
when he agreed to do the renovations, Jaffee told him that the work was being done in order to 
sell the building. A & Z's president makes the same averments (Glambosky Supplemental 
Affidavit 717-10). Jaffee has submitted an affidavit in order to "respon[d] to the misleading 
statements in the affidavits submitted by . . . Albo . . . and . . . Glambosky" (Jaffee Reply 
Affidavit 7 2). Interestingly, although Jaffee attempts to refute the lienors' contentions that the 
building was used for commercial purposes and that the renovation done was so extensive as to 
-5- [* 5 ]
constitute a new building, she does not deny telhg the Iienors that the building was to be sold 
after their work was finished. Petitioner herself (Supplemental Affidavit 9 10) does not deny that 
the Iienors were told the building was to be sold; her response is only the ambivalent, “I have not 
yet decided what to do with the Premises . . . . There is no contract to sell the Premises, and the 
Premises are not now on the market.” This does not satisfy the “residence” requirement. “Should 
the [building] not be ~[etitionerl’s residence, the [home improvement] contract . . . would be 
enforceable despite [respondents’] lack of license, because no license is required . . . where the 
work is not for a . . . residence.” Avres v. Dunhill Interiors, Ltd., 138 AD2d 303,305 (1st Dept 
1988). 
Conclusion 
In the final analysis, two factors convince this Court that the statute does not apply. 
First, the instant property appears, in its post-conflagration state, to have been more of an 
investment property than a “home.” Second, and perhaps more importantly, the contractors did 
not have actual or constructive notice that they were working on a “home.” A contractor cannot 
close its eyes to reality, cannot plead ignorance of the function of a house. But when a contractor 
contracts (Moving Exhibit 1) with an “estate,” the address of which is an “office,” whose 
signature is that of a person who does not purport to live on the premises-indeed, when, 
obviously, nobody lives on the premises, and the person who appears to have owned the premises 
is deceased-and periodic payments are made on “estate” checks; and when the contractor testifies, 
-6- [* 6 ]
without clear contradiction, that the contractor was told that the property was being fixed up for 
investment purposes, application of the statute would not further its purpose and would, 
apparently, deny due process to the contractor. 
Today’s decision may be “~lose.’~ And it should be limited to its express facts. But a 
contrary decision would punish contractors with a reasonable, good-faith belief that they did not 
need a license, without any countervailing benefit to the statute’s salutary purpose of preventing 
“sharp practices” within the home improvement business. 
Thus, for the reasons set forth herein. the petition is denied and dismissed and the 
clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly. 
This opinion constitutes the decision and order of the Court. 
3 - /- [* 7 ]
