PNE Media, LLC v Cistrone
2001 NY Slip Op 30054(U)
September 10, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0601390/2000
Judge: Sheila Abdus-Salaam
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.ORK - NEW YORK’ 
13 SHEZLA 
 ABDUS-SAM PART _. 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
fAqz%zml 
MOTION DATE 3/16/01 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
LP 
94 MOTlON CAL. NO. 
apers, numbered I to were read on thk motion tolfor 
 I 
PAPERS NUMERED 
otice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ..’. 
Cross -Motion: 
 Id Yes 0 No 
papers, it is ordered that this motion and 
cwoss-motio 
d accordance with the accompanying 
 memorandumrddecbion.. 
I J. S. C. SEPTEMBER 10, 2001 Dated: 
Check one: 
a FINAL DISPOSITION 
 )?I NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
PNE MEDIA, LLC and MARATHON 
OUTDOOR, L. L. C., 
Plaintiffs, 
-against - Index No. 60 1390/00 
IAS PART 13 
DECISION 
DOJMINIC CISTRONE, NICK SUD, 
MICHAEL MILLER, LOUIS STRIAR, 
INC., LEN 
 ‘WEISTENTHAL and R. 
SCOTT LEWIS, P.E., P.C., 
Defendants. 
SHEILA ABDUS -SALAAM, J.: 
This action, which arises out of plaintiffs’ purchase of two billboard locations in 
Long Island City, is before the court in connection with plaintiffs’ motion to stay the first 
and second counterclaims alleged in defendants’ answer, pending arbitration, or to 
dismiss these claims. Plaintiffs have moved pursuant to CPLR 7503 which governs 
applications to compel or stay arbitration. There is no arbitration proceeding currently 
pending. These parties were previously before this court in connection with defendant’s 
earlier motion to compel arbitration of the plaintiffs’ claims, which motion was 
vigorously opposed by plaintiffs. Plaintiffs claim that defendants’ answer was interposed 
after the earlier decision denying arbitration, that the counterclaims raise wholly 
-1- [* 2 ]
independent issues from the claims in the Complaint, and that the counterclaims should 
be stayed pending final resolution of the main claims, or that they should be dismissed 
outright. 
Defendants have cross -moved to stay the claims alleged in the Complaint if the 
plaintiffs’ motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
As explained in my earlier decision, plaintiffs claim that they have not been able 
to operate the billboards at issue for any significant period because the 
permits have been 
revoked by the City, that the individual defendants obtained the permits through 
improper permit applications, and that defendants knew that the City intended to revoke 
the permits. (Decision and Order, dated October 10,2000). Also explained in the earlier 
decision was the fact that plaintiff PNE Media, LLC 
 (,,NE”) purchased a controlling 
interest in Marathon Outdoor, LLC (“Marathon”) from defendants. That purchase was 
effected pursuant to the terms of a Limited Liability Company Agreement (“’the LLC 
Agreement”). In the earlier motion, defendants sought to invoke an arbitration clause 
contained in the LLC Agreement, but the court found that the dispute involved the sale 
of billboard assets, not the internal workings of Marathon, and rehsed to apply the 
arbitration clause to compel arbitration of claims alleged in the Complaint. I found that 
none of the pledge agreements or promissory notes involved in the sale of the billboard 
assets had arbitration clauses and that the parties intended to resolve any disputes with 
respect to the pledge agreements or promissory notes in a court proceeding. I further held 
-2- [* 3 ]
that 
where there are multiple agreements between the parties, and 
not all contain an arbitration clause, the parties cannot be 
compelled to arbitrate a dispute unless it falls clearly within 
the type of claims agreed to be referred to arbitration. 
(Citations omitted). 
Id. 
In the present motion to compel arbitration of defendants’ counterclaims, PNE 
asserts that these claims arise out of and relate directly to the LLC Agreement, previously 
found to contain an arbitration clause, and that these counterclaims must be arbitrated. 
The Complaint alleges that on September 30, 1998, PNE agreed to purchase a 
majority interest in Marathon from defendants Dominic Cistrone, Nick Sud and Michael 
Miller (collectively, 
 “CSM’). Complaint, at 
7 22. The parties executed the LLC 
Agreement along with a non-negotiable Promissory Note and Pledge Agreement to 
effectuate the transaction. Rosenthal Affidavit, dated February 5,200 1, exh. A; 
Complaint, at 125. The Complaint further alleges that defendants had obtained an 
advertising permit that was inadequate for the use intended by Marathon and PNE, and 
that, as to a second billboard, defendants used improper means to obtain permits for a 
billboard. Both of these billboards had been represented to be viable assets of Marathon. 
In the first cause of action, PNE claims that it relied upon representations and 
warranties contained in the Pledge Agreement, when it agreed to purchase a majority 
interest in Marathon, and that defendants’ misrepresentations with respect to the 
-3- [* 4 ]
billboards constitutes a breach of 
warranty, which caused injury to plaintiff. The fourth 
and seventh causes of action allege that defendants’ 
 misrepresentations had the effect of 
fraudulently inducing PNE to purchase the majority interest in Marathon. The eighth 
cause of action alleges a breach of fiduciary duties owed by defendants to PNE as 
“members in Marathon.” Complaint, at 
7 85. The tenth cause of action, for replevin, 
seeks possession of Marathon’s books and records on Marathon’s behalf. 
The first counterclaim alleges that PNE breached its fiduciary duties by failing to 
enforce Marathon’s rights under the billboard lease, failing to pay Marathon’s vendors, 
or the rental on the billboards, failing to provide financial information to the individual 
defendants regarding Marathon, and failing to exercise the skill, care and diligence 
required for the conduct of Marathon’s business. 
The second counterclaim alleges that this same conduct constituted a breach of 
PNE’s contractual obligations as Manager of Marathon. 
PNE claims that the defendants’ counterclaims relate to the LLC Agreement, only, 
and not to the claims alleged in the Complaint, which arise under the Promissory Note 
and Pledge agreement. The counterclaims must be arbitrated, argues PNE, pointing to 
the allegation in the defendants’ answer, which invokes PNE’s fiduciary duties under the 
“Marathon Agreement.” 
Alternatively, PNE claims that defendants have failed to allege misconduct which 
rises to the level of wrong required under the contract before a claim of breach of 
-4- [* 5 ]
fiduciary duty arises. PNE relies on section 4.2 of the LLC Agreement, which limits 
liability for mismanagement of the Company to intentional conduct, knowing violations 
of the law, gross negligence, or a transaction for which the manager receives a personal 
benefit. 
Defendants argue that the claims alleged in their answer arise out of the same 
transactions, and involve common issues of fact and law, as the claims in the Complaint. 
Defendants claim that the LLC agreement was executed simultaneously with the 
Promissory Note and the Pledge Agreement, and that but for the prohibitions against 
Marathon’s use of the billboards, imposed by the owner of the land on which the 
billboards were built, none of the present claim would exist. 
Where arbitrable claims are inextricably bound together with claims that are not 
arbitrable, the court may direct that all of the claim be resolved in the same judicial 
forum. Brennan 
 VAG. Becker, Inc., 127 AD2d 951 
(3d Dept 1987). 
PNE argues that Brennan is no longer the law, having been overturned by more 
recent decisions in the First Department, namely CuZZman Ventures, Inc. v Conk, (252 
AD2d 222 [ 1* Dept 1998]), and HSBC Bank USA v The National Equity Corp., (279 
AD2d 251 [lst Dept 20011). Both Cullman and HSBC are distinguishable from Brennan. 
CuZZman involved a New York eourt’s order which enjoined an Indiana arbitration, and 
lawsuit, on finding that the claims advanced in Indiana involved the sarne allegations of 
fraud as had been raised in a pending New York arbitration. The Appellate Division 
-5- [* 6 ]
held that the record did not support the IAS court’s finding that the Indiana claims 
overlapped with the claim pending in New York. Even had there been “a greater 
confluence of 
claims,” held the appellate court, the IAS court lacked the authority to 
enjoin the Indiana proceedings, even if the court “articulated salutary grounds for doing 
so” since the parties had entered two separate agreements, each calling for arbitration, 
one in Indiana, the other in New York. Cullman Ventures, IPZC. v Conk, supra, at 228 - 
229. The IAS court could not intrude “into what clearly were binding contractual 
agreements,” which agreements were to be “enforced according to their terms.” Id. at 
228. 
In HSBC, the parties had contractually agreed to permit either side to seek 
arbitration of a portion of any dispute, while at the same time electing to seek judicial 
enforcement of any other portion of the same dispute. When the borrower sought to stay 
a judicial proceeding brought for issuance of an order of seizure of collateral, the IAS 
court issued the stay, finding that HSBC had made an election of remedies by 
commencing an arbitration proceeding first. The Appellate Division reversed, citing the 
holding in Cullman: arbitration agreements, as contractual agreements, must be enforced 
according to their terms. HSBC Bunk USA v National Equity Corp., supra at 254. 
Issuance of an order of seizure would not determine the ultimate merits of the case, but 
only the issue of the right of possession of the collateral. Under the contract, and the 
CPLR, HSBC was free to seek judicial relief while simultaneously 
 seeking arbitration of 
-6- [* 7 ]
the underlying dispute. 
Neither Cullman nor HSBC addresses the situation in Brennan. In 
Brennun, the 
plaintiff had opened three investment accounts, two as a trustee for a profit sharing plan 
and pension plan of his professional corporation, and one as a personal account for 
himself and his wife. A subsequently executed margin agreement for the personal 
account contained an arbitration clause. None of the documents for the other two 
accounts contained an arbitration clause. Plaintiff then commenced a lawsuit alleging 
causes of action based on all three investment accounts. The court found that the 
circumstances were such that all of 
plaintiffs claims were found to be “inextricably 
bound together.” Despite the arbitration clause, the court ordered the parties to litigate 
the dispute over the personal account in the judicial forum where the commercial 
accounts were being litigated. 
As in Brennan, defendants’ counterclaims are “inextricably bound together’’ with 
the claims in the Complaint. Although PNE would have the court bifkcate the issues 
arising under the LLC Agreement, and those arising under the Promissory Note and 
Pledge Agreement, in fact the relationship between plaintiffs and defendants as limited 
partners in Marathon is inextricably intertwined with the claims each party raises, as to 
fraud, breach of fiduciary duties, and breach of contract, in their respective pleadings. 
The motion to stay the counterclaims, pending arbitration, is thus denied. 
Nor have plaintiffs sustained their burden of proof with respect to that branch of 
-7- [* 8 ]
the motion which seeks dismissal of the counterclaims for failure to state a cause of 
action. CPLR 321 l(a)(7). On a motion to dismiss for failure to state a cause of action, 
every fact alleged must be assumed to be true and the pleading liberally construed in 
favor of the pleading party. Barr v 
Wackman, 36 NY2d 371 (1975). A pleading should 
not be dismissed so long as a cause of action exists. Rovello v 
Orofino Realty Co., 40 
NY2d 633 (1 976). Despite PNE’s interpretation of the LLC Agreement, the defendants’ 
answer adequately pleads claims for breach of fiduciary duty and breach of contract. The 
branch of the motion seeking dismissal of these claims is denied. 
The 
cross-motion to stay the Complaint is denied, as moot. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the motion to stay or dismiss the first and second counterclaims is 
denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that the 
crosscmotion to stay the Complaint is denied as moot. 
Dated: SEPTEMBER 10,200 I ENTER 
, J.S.C. 
-8- [* 9 ]
