Swain v Garban-Intercapital Mgt. Servs. Ltd.
2001 NY Slip Op 30081(U)
August 14, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 600456/01
Judge: Martin Shulman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.JULIAN SWAIN, GFINET INC. AND GFI 
SECURITIES LLC, Index No.: 600456/01 
Plaintiffs, 
DECISION AND ORDER 
- against - 
GARBAN-INTERCAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES LIMITED and GARBAN INTERCAPITAL : 
SERVICES LLC, 
HON. MARTIN SHULMAN, J.S.C.: 
Procedural Historv of the Litiaation 
At the inception of this litigation, Julian Swain (“Swain” ), GFlNet Inc. and GFI 
Securities, L.L.C. (collectively “GFI” or “plaintiffs”) had initially moved by order to show 
cause (“OSC”) for preliminary injunctive relief (CPLR §7502[c]) in aid of arbitration at 
the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”) with Garban Corporates, 
L.L.C. (“Garban-US”) to maintain the status quo otherwise plaintiffs claimed any 
potential arbitration award in its favor would be rendered ineffectual. In a companion 
declaratory judgment action filed concomitantly with the Article 75 proceeding, plaintiffs 
had also moved by OSC seeking preliminary injunctive relief (CPLR $6301) against a 
United Kingdom corporation, Garban-Intercapital Management Services. Ltd. (“Garban- 
UK) and Garban-Intercapital Services, L.L.C. (collectively ”Garban”, or ”defendants”), [* 1]
non-NASD members, to enjoin Garban and any of its group companies from interfering 
with Swain’s employment at GFI and/or otherwise enforcing certain restrictive 
covenants contained in a terminated employment contract entered into between Swain 
and Garban-UK. In a Decision and Order issued on February 8, 2001,’ this Court 
vacated temporary restraining orders issued, ex parte, denied plaintiffs’ applications for 
a preliminary injunction in this action (CPLR §6301), denied CPLR §7502(c) injunctive 
relief in a related Article 75 proceeding under Index No.: 01/102097 and dismissed that 
proceeding. 
In the earlier Decision and Order, this Court noted the following: 
... Moreover, in this context, there remains a real question as 
to whether New York is the proper forum to resolve this 
Contract dispute. The application of the doctrine of forum 
non conveniens: 
... should turn on considerations of justice, fairness, 
and convenience and not solely on the residence of 
one of the parties. Although such residence is, of 
course, an important factor to be considered, forum 
non conveniens relief should be granted when it plainly 
appears that New York is the inconvenient forum and 
that another is available which will best serve the ends 
of justice and the convenience of the parties. The 
great advantage of the doctrine- its flexibility based on 
the facts and circumstances of a particular case- is 
severely , if not undercut when our courts are 
prevented from applying it solely because one of the 
parties is a New York resident or corporation. 
Silver v. Great American Insurance ComDany, 29 N.Y.2d 
356, 361, 328 N.Y.S.2d 398 (1972). 
As previously discussed, we are confronted with a UK 
’ The parties’ respective views of the facts and controlling principles of law were fully 
discussed in this Court’s earlier Decision and Order and will not be repeated. 
-2- [* 2]
contract between UK citizens governed by UK law. GFI 
and ... [Garban-US], New York corporations, are not parties 
to that Contract. But for Swain’s new-found residence and 
employment in New York, none of the real parties in interest 
have a substantial nexus to New York. While the 
defendants have not cross-moved for this relief, one does 
not have to be clairvoyant to anticipate that a request for 
such relief will eventually be sought, particularly, when this 
doctrine was indirectly invoked in .. . [defendants’ counsel’s] 
affirmation in opposition to the plaintiffs’ ... request for 
preliminary injunctions and in support of defendants’. . . 
cross-motion for interim injunctive relief to enforce the 
restrictive covenants pending a resolution in the UK court. 
(Bracketed matter added). 
Current Round of Motion Practice 
By notice of motion dated February 15, 2001, Garban, inter alia, moved to 
dismiss the complaint grounded on the doctrine of forum non conveniens or, 
alternatively, stay the action pending the conclusion of the lawsuit in England. (GFI 
apparently insisted that Garban interpose an answer, proceed with discovery and 
otherwise actively defend the instant declaratory judgment action.) Plaintiffs oppose 
the motion and cross-move to amend their complaint. Both the motion and cross- 
* The complaint in the underlying declaratory judgment action recites six causes of 
action seeking: (1) a declaration that certain post-employment restrictive covenants contained 
in a negotiated letter agreement dated October 28, 1999 supplementing and superceding 
certain terms and conditions of employment recited in an executed employment contract 
(collectively, ”the Agreement”) between Swain and Garban-UK are unreasonably broad, prevent 
Swain from earning a living and are unenforceable as a matter of law and public policy; (2) a 
declaration that Swain has not breached the Agreement; (3) a declaration that GFI or any of its 
affiliates has not tortiously interfered with the Agreement, unfairly competed with Garban-UK or 
any of its affiliates by hiring Swain or violated Garban’s rights, vis a vis, Swain; (4) monetary 
damages because Garban, with knowledge of Swain’s employment and contractual relationship 
with GFI, has tortiously interfered, and continues to interfere, with Swain’s employment and 
contractual relationship with GFI by threatening to bring injunction proceedings against Swain 
[in England] relying on the Agreement’s unenforceable, post-employment termination 
restrictions and had tortiously interfered, and continues to interfere, with Swain‘s employment 
and contractual and other relations with GFI “...by means that are unfair, otherwise improper, 
-3- [* 3]
motion are consolidated herein for disposition. 
The UK Litigation and Plaintiffs’ Interim Actions 
After the issuance of this Court’s Decision and Order, the UK litigation ensued 
on February 9, 2001. Garban-UK, inter alia, sought injunctions to enforce the restrictive 
covenants contained in the Agreement, damages for Swain’s breach of the agreement, 
i.e., Swain’s failure to complete his term of employment through and including 
December 31 , 2001, Swain’s repayment of a sign-on bonus of f250,000 (roughly 
$400,000 U.S.) pursuant to Clause 3.7 of the Agreement, interest and other relief. 
Garban-UK also applied for temporary restraining orders/preliminary injunctions 
pending a “speedy (but full) trial.” As more fully set forth in the affidavit of John Hugh 
Robert Manners, Esq., (Garban’s UK’s counsel, in support of Garban’s motion to 
dismiss the case at bar) Swain agreed to certain undertakings, viz., preliminary 
injunctive relief, and it was ordered that the UK trial be bifurcated. The first bench 
trial 
in the UK High Court of Justice- Queen’s Bench Division. was scheduled for March 5, 2001 , before the Honorable Mr. Justice McCombe 
In the interim, plaintiffs applied to the NASD for the same preliminary injunctive 
relief in aid of arbitration that this Court denied in its February 8th Decision and Order, 
without legal justification and with malice.”; (5) monetary damages because Garban has 
breached, and continues to breach, its financial obligations to Swain as set forth in the 
Agreement; and (6) monetary damages because Garban has engaged in unfair competition by 
threatening frivolous litigation and interfering with Swain’s employment and contractual 
relationship with GFI based upon the Agreement’s unenforceable, post-employment 
termination restrictions. 
As noted in fin 8-10 of the Manners Affidavit, the first trial was to solely consider issues 
of liability and whether permanent injunctions should issue to enforce the restrictive covenants 
of the Agreement. The second trial would assess monetary damages derived from the court’s 
conclusions rendered after the first trial. 
-4- [* 4]
including a stay of the UK trial. Defendants then moved by OSC to stay the NASD 
from issuing any orders and/or proceeding with the arbitration between plaintiffs and 
Garban-US. Plaintiff cross-moved for sanctions and the OSC and cross motion were 
referred to the Hon. Charles Ramos for disposition. After hearing oral argument and 
considering the respective papers of the parties, Justice Ramos issued a bench 
decision granting defendants motion for a stay. The decretal paragraphs of Justice 
Ramos' signed order entered on March 28, 2001, (Exhibit E to Hall Aff. in support of 
motion to dismiss) recited the following: 
... it is 
ORDERED, that the motion of the defendantslRespondents 
[Garban] is hereby granted and the cross-motion of 
Plaintiffs/Petitioners [Swain and GFI] is hereby denied; and it 
is further 
ORDERED, that Plaintiffs/Petitioners and any person or 
entity representing or acting in concert with them are stayed 
from pursuing further the NASD Arbitration, including their 
motion for preliminary injunction in aid of arbitration, pending 
the resolution of the London Action; and it is further 
ORDERED, that Plaintiffs/Petitioners, and any person or 
entity representing or acting in concert with them, may not 
seek to stay the London Action in any court, arbitration or 
other forum, except the High Court of Justice, Queens 
Bench Division, United Kingdom; and it is further 
ORDERED, that this Order shall be binding on 
PlaintiffslPetitioners and any person or entity representing or 
acting in concert with them. 
It is unnecessary to delineate the respective positions of the parties, summarize 
the substantive contents of the voluminous documentation filed with the UK High Court 
of Justice or narrate the colloquy between respective UK counsel and said Court during 
varied court sessions prior to the March !jth trial date. 
-5- [* 5]
Suffice it to say, on March 2, 2001, UK counsel, on behalf of Swain, “...formally 
conceded all issues of fact and law [as to liability and the granting of injunctive relief to 
enforce the restrictive covenants of the Agreement] and withdrew his defen[s]e in the 
First Trial.” (bracketed matter added) (see, Manners Aff. at 717 and portions of the 
transcript of the March 2”d court session before the Honorable Mr. Justice McCombe of 
the UK High Court of Justice annexed as Exhibit 1 thereto). Nonetheless, Swain was 
afforded an opportunity to identify any issue of fact(s) not embodied in his concession 
of total liability to Garban-UK for breaching the Agreement and to file such application 
by March 19, 2001. According to Garban’s UK counsel: 
... the Defendant [Swain] did not avail himself of this “liberty 
to apply’’ by the deadline of 19 March 2001 or at all. 
Consequently the concession of all the issues of fact and 
law was and remains total and without exceptions 
whatsoever. Following the concession, there is no factual 
basis outstanding on which Swain can assert any 
counterclaim against any of the Claimants [Garban] . The 
time limit for an appeal has now expired. (Bracketed matter 
added). 
Manners Aff. in support of motion to dismiss at 719. 
In the same UK action, the parties then undertook various procedural actions to 
ready themselves for the second trial which will solely dispose of the issues of fact and 
law as to monetary damages. 
The Proposed Amended Complaint 
The proposed amended complaint pleads four (4) causes of action: (1) Garban 
has tortiously interfered with certain business relationships between GFI and Swain and 
its customers; (2) Garban[-UK] has breached its financial obligations to Swain under the 
-6- [* 6]
Agreement4 ; (3) motivated by malice, Garban has engaged in unfair competition and 
committed unlawful acts to harm GFI and its business relationships; and (4) possessing 
knowledge of certain brokers’ employment and contractual relationships with GFI, 
Garban is attempting to interfere with those relationships with GFI. 
ResPective Arquments 
As noted earlier, Garban followed through on gratis dictum set out in this 
Court’s February 8‘h Decision and Order by moving to dismiss plaintiffs’ initial claims on 
forum non conveniens grounds. As a result of Swain’s concession on the “eve” of the 
bifurcated trial in the UK action, Defendants obtained a judgment of total liability under 
the Agreement and injunctive relief to enforce its post-termination restrictive covenants. 
Thus, Garban now invokes the doctrines of resjudicata and collateral estoppel to bar 
plaintiffs from continuing to prosecute their original claims and from proposing GFl’s 
new claims. Garban acknowledges that GFI is not a party to the UK action. 
Nonetheless, defendants argue that there exists an identity of interest between GFI and 
Swain in the ongoing UK action and in the case at bar so that GFl’s proposed claims 
are not independent of the Swain’s contractual dispute with Garban-UK but rather are 
derivative of that dispute. Thus, Garban contends that these doctrines are equally 
applicable to GFI which would render the prosecution of the original complaint and 
proposed amended claims (particularly, the proposed Second Cause of Action) futile. 
Unlike the six (6) causes of action in the complaint, the proposed First, Third and 
Fourth Causes of Action obviously made no reference to the Agreement and/or post- 
termination restrictive covenants therein. The proposed Second Cause of Action repleads the 
Fifth Cause of Action in the original complaint and presumably will be considered during the 
damages phase of the UK action. 
-7- [* 7]
As to the latter, defendants also claim that the proposed First, Third and Fourth Causes 
of action, as pleaded, are fatally defective as a matter of law (e.g., insufficiently 
pleaded allegations of fact to establish the elements of: (a) a claim for tortious 
interference with GFl’s current and future “business relationships” and/or contractual 
relationships; (b) a claim for tortious interference with the employment of brokers at 
GFI; and (c) a claim for unfair competition). (See, arguments and supporting case law in 
defendants’ reply memorandum of law at pp. 19-26.) 
Plaintiffs contrarily reject defendants’ contention that New York is an 
inconvenient forum and that they are barred from prosecuting this declaratory judgment 
action because the doctrine of resjudicata is inapplicable to GFI ( interalia, GFI is not a 
party in the UK action). Plaintiffs further argue that the court must liberally construe the 
proposed pleadings in a favorable light and deem the allegations contained therein to 
be true 5, and further argue that the proposed amended complaint contains adequately 
pleaded allegations to foreclose dismissal under CPLR s3211 (see, plaintiffs’ reply 
memorandum of law at pp. 7-17). Plaintiffs pointedly claim Swain’s Fifth Cause of 
Action and the proposed Second Cause of Action seek money damages for Garban- 
UK’s breaches of the Agreement (brokerage commissions owed, etc.) and are wholly 
unrelated to Swain’s concession of liability and acceptance of injunctive relief prior to 
the “First Trial” and, if anything, could conceivably be considered during the “Second 
Trial” on damages. For this reason, plaintiffs argue, the doctrine of resjudicata has no 
Interestingly, plaintiffs implicitly concede that the proposed claims contain allegations 
of tortious acts that may have occurred; yet, possess no information necessary to support 
these proposed claims. Plaintiffs are willing to await discovery ‘...to obtain more particulars of 
the tortious acts.” (Plaintiffs’ reply memorandum of law at pp. 5-6). 
-8- [* 8]
effect on these claims. 
Discussion 
With the exception of Fifth Cause of Action in the original complaint, now 
repleaded as the Second Cause of Action in the proposed amended complaint, 
plaintiffs have not included the original complaint’s other five (5) causes of actions in 
the proposed pleading. It is evident that such claims are deemed withdrawn and 
abandoned as a result of Swain’s concession of liability under the Agreement, including 
Garban-UK’s entitlement to injunctive relief to enforce the post-termination restrictive 
covenants. Swain’s concession virtually gutted five (5) out of the six (6) causes of 
action set forth in the complaint (see, Footnote 1 , supra). Swain’s surviving Fifth Cause 
of Action for alleged monetary damages due him under the Agreement @e., 
commissions, etc.) will most likely be considered during the second trial in the UK 
action as possible set-offs against damages purportedly due Garban-UK . Apparently 
recognizing that for all intents and purposes, plaintiffs’ complaint underlying this 
declaratory judgment action has gasped its last breath, plaintiffs attempted to 
resuscitate the instant action by filing their cross-motion on April 3, 2001 (approximately 
one (1) month after Swain’s total concession of liability under the Agreement) to amend 
the complaint now claiming it is not about Swain, but rather about GFI. Put differently, 
the proposed amended complaint shifts its focus from Swain to GFI as the wronged 
party, whereas the original complaint portrayed Swain as the dominant victim. 
Leave to Amend 
Leave to amend pleadings should be freely given in the absence of prejudice to 
-9- [* 9]
the opposing party. CPLR $3025 (b); Mathiesen v. Mead, 168 A.D.2d 736 ( 3rd Dept., 
1990). A court must examine the underlying merit of a proposed amended pleading so 
as to avoid wasting judicial resources on unmeritorious actions. Id. at 757. See also, 
Seider v. Skala, 168 A.D.2d 355 (Ist Dept., 1990) citing to East Asiatic ComDanv v. 
Corash, 34 A.D.2d 432 (Ist Dept., 1970). In this context, this Court is guided by the 
following principles: 
On a motion to dismiss [a complaint], the court is not called 
upon to determine the truth of the allegations (see, 279 
Broadway Cop. v. Alexander‘s lnc., 46 NY2d 506,509). 
Rather the complaint should be liberally construed in favor of 
the plaintiff (see, Foley v. D’Agostino, 21 AD2d 60, 65-66) 
solely to determine whether the pleading states a cause of 
action cognizable at law (see, Guggenheimer v. Ginzburg, 
43 NY2d 268,275). 
Eastern Consolidated ProDerties, Inc., v. Lucas, et al., - A.D.2dP, N.Y.L.J., July 30, 
2001, p. 22, c. 3 (Ist Dept.). 
The proposed First, Third and Fourth Causes of Action are barren of any factual 
content to support the claims pleaded. To illustrate, the First Cause of Action 
conclusorily pleads a claim of Garban’s tortious interference with current and future 
“business relationships’’ between GFI, Swain and its customers. Support for this claim 
apparently rests on this pleaded allegation, “Prior to Swain’s hiring by GFI, Garban 
made repeated written and verbal threats to prevent Swain from earning a living and to 
“declare war” on GFI by imposing its overwhelming financial Girth of GFI, a small 
company in comparison.” (Proposed Amended Complaint at 119; Id., at 722) (see, 
plaintiffs’ reply memorandum of law at p. 7). Without any additional facts, these 
allegations are conclusorily restated in GFl’s counsel’s affirmation in support of the 
-1 0- [* 10]
cross-motion for leave to amend (Levin Aff. at 18). As stated earlier, the pleaded 
allegation contained in 71 8 of the Proposed Amended Complaint contain no facts. 
Moreover, the conclusory allegations pleaded in 71 20 through 24 of the Proposed 
Amended Complaint are on “information and belief” and lack legally sufficient factual 
content. Conceivably, plaintiffs could have ventured a “save” by proffering an affidavit 
by an individual with personal knowledge of the facts to amplify the pleadings (cf., 
Eastern Consolidated, ProPerties, Inc., supra). “...When seeking leave to amend a 
pleading, it is incumbent upon a movant to make ‘some evidentiary showing that the 
claim can be supported’ ... ” Mathiesen, supra, at 737. Not single affidavit accompanies 
the plaintiffs’ supporting papers. “ ‘...[P]laintiffs’ mere contentions ... [of various tortious 
and malicious acts to harm GFI and Swain] ... offered with no factual basis to support the 
allegations ...[ are palpably] insufficient to state ... cause[s] of action for tortious 
interference with contractual relations’. . .[, unfair competition and interference with 
brokers’ employment relations with GFI]”. (Bracketed matter added). Wootton USA. et 
al., v. LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene. & MacRae et at., 243 A.D.2d 168,183 (Ist Dept., 1998). 
Except for the proposed Second Cause of Action which is identical to the 
pleaded allegations contained in the existing Fifth Cause of Action of the original 
complaint, the proposed amended complaint is devoid of merit. Accordingly, the 
plaintiffs’ cross-motion for leave to amend the complaint is denied. 
Res Judicata and Collateral Estoppel - 
To round out 
plaintiffs sufficiently this discussion, assume, arguendo, that this Court determined that 
pleaded their claims in the proposed amended complaint and there 
-1 1- [* 11]
was joinder of issue, nevertheless, this Court would still have barred the plaintiffs from 
prosecuting the claims therein grounded on the doctrine of res judicata. To understand 
this discussion, a brief review of the case law addressing the doctrine of resjudicata is 
helpful. 
“Under New York’s transactional-analysis approach to res judicata, ‘once a claim 
is brought to a final conclusion, all other claims arising out of the same transaction or 
series of transactions are barred even if based upon different theories or if seeking a 
different remedy’ (O’Brien v. City of Syracuse, 54 N.Y.2d 353,357, 445 N.Y.S.2d 687, 
429 N.E.2d 1158; Ouziel v. Coyle, 165 A.D.2d 869, 869, 560 N.Y.S.2d 338) ...” Joem 
International, Ltd. v. SwedwaII. Inc., 215 A.D.2d 530 (2d Dept., 1995). “ ‘ It is 
fundamental that a judgment in a prior action is binding not only on parties to that 
action, but on those in privity with them’ ... i.e., those whose with interests that were 
represented in the prior proceeding ... or who controlled the conduct of the prior action to 
further their own interests ...” Castellano. et al.. v. Citv of New York. et al., 251 A.D.2d 
194 (Ist Dept., 1998); Prospect Owners Corp. v. Tudor Realtv Services Con>.. et al., 260 
A.D.2d 299 (1’‘ Dept., 1999); see also, All Terrain Properties. Inc., v. Hoy, 265 A.D.2d 
87, 95-96 (Ist Dept., 2000). 
By not including the original complaint’s First Through Fourth and Sixth Causes 
of Action in the proposed amended complaint, plaintiffs sought to plead independent 
claims against Garban. But, the First, Third and Fourth Causes of Action in the 
proposed amended complaint are not independent actions but are purported, collateral 
claims clearly derivative of the same series of transactions underlying the Agreement 
dispute between Swain and Garban-UK in the UK action. Moreover, GFI, as Swain’s 
-1 2- [* 12]
employer and an admitted underwriter of Swain’s litigation costs, was, and is, clearly in 
privity with Swain and had, and continues to have, a financial interest in the outcome of 
the UK action. Thus, all of GFl’s proposed claims would have also been barred by res 
Concerning the doctrine of collateral estoppel, the Court of Appeals in Schwartz 
v. Public Administrator of Bronx County, 24 N.Y.2d 65, 71 (1969), succinctly abridged 
the two prerequisites of collateral estoppel (Le., issue preclusion): 
New York law has now reached the point where there are but 
two necessary requirements for the- invocation of collateral 
estoppel. There must be an identity of issue which has necessarily 
been decided in the prior action and is decisive of the present action, 
and, second, there must been have been a full and fair opportunity 
to contest the decision now said to be controlling. 
It differs from resjudicata (Le., claim preclusion) in that it does not affect an issue which 
might have been, but, in fact, had not been, resolved in the first action. Rather it affects 
an issue actually decided in the earlier action. Nor is issue preclusion limited to 
successive lawsuits involving the same cause of action. “...It has [also] been observed 
that since the consequences of a determination that a party is collaterally estopped 
from litigating a particular issue are great, strict requirements for application of the 
doctrine must be satisfied to insure that a party not be precluded from obtaining one full 
hearing on his or her claim ... The question as to whether a party had a full and fair 
As noted, supra, In the UK action, Garban-UK has obtained a judgment against Swain 
as to liability under the Agreement and injunctive relief. Parenthetically, it seems to this Court 
that Swain, through its employer, GFI (seemingly a stranger to the prior adjudication), 
attempted to collaterally attack this judgment by pleading “independent” claims that Garban did, 
and continues to, tortiously interfere with GFl’s business, employee andlor customer 
relationships and such claims could have been made in the UK action during the first trial. 
-1 3- [* 13]
opportunity to litigate a prior determination involves a practical inquiry into the realities 
of litigation ... Collateral estoppel effect will only be given to matters ‘actually litigated and 
determined’ in a prior action. Preclusive effect will not be given if the particular issue ... 
was not ‘actually litigated squarely addressed and specifically decided.. .” (Emphasis 
added). Sinaleton Management. Inc. v. Compere, 243 A.D.2d 213,217 (Is* Dept., 1998). 
See also, Color bv Peruament, Inc. v. O’Henrv’s Film Works, Inc.. et al., 278 A.D.2d 92, 
93-94 (1 st Dept., 2000). 
A careful analysis of the record of the UK action (Exhibit 1 to Manners Affidavit in 
support of motion to dismiss) reveals that Swain’s claim for monetary damages as set 
forth in his Fifth Cause of Action arising under the Agreement has not yet been litigated 
on the merits. As a result of the bifurcation, issues of fact and law referable to Garban- 
UK’s claims for damages and Swain’s claimed entitlement to set-offs, etc., must await 
the outcome of the second trial. Thus, defendants’ reliance on the doctrine of collateral 
estoppel and, and for that matter, res judicata, to bar the prosecution of this claim is 
misplaced. 
Forum Non Conveniens 
Notwithstanding the foregoing analysis, this Court grants Garban’s motion to 
dismiss Swain’s surviving claim and the entire action on the ground of forum non 
conveniens. As this Court observed in its February 8th Decision and Order, “...the 
defendant[ ]...[is a] citizen[ ] and resident[ ] of a foreign jurisdiction, most of the 
business dealings in connection with the subject agreement were conducted in London, 
the agreement itself was executed in London, the parties were to perform in London, 
-14- [* 14]
the bulk of the witnesses and the evidence that defendant[ ] would need to defend the 
action are located in London, the action is governed by English Law, and England is 
[and has been] an available alternative forum for the action ...” (Bracketed matter 
added). Blueve Navigation v. Den Norske Bank, 239 A.D.2d 192 (Ist Dept., 1997); 
Brooke Grow Ltd.. et al., v. JCH Svndicate 488 et al., 214 A.D.2d 486 (Ist Dept., 1995). 
This constitutes the Decision and Order of this Court. Courtesy copies of same 
have been mailed to counsel for the parties. 
DATED: New York, New York 
August 14,2001 
HON. MARTIN SHULMAN. J.S.C. 
-1 5- [* 15]
