Lichtenheim v D'Alessio
2001 NY Slip Op 30013(U)
August 14, 2001
Supreme Court, Queens County
Docket Number: 0003055/3055
Judge: Orin R. Kitzes
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.Short Form Order 
NEW YORK SUPREME COURT - QUEENS COUNTY 
ORIN R. KITZES IA Part 17 Present: HONORABLE 
Justice 
X Index 
Number 3055 2001 DAVID LICHTENHEIM, et al. 
- against - Motion 
Date June 20, 2001 
Motion MICHAEL P. D'ALESSIO, et al. 
X Cal. Number 23 
The following papers numbered 1 to 11 read on this motion by 
defendant Ponce De Leon Federal Bank for an order granting summary judgment dismissing the complaint. Plaintiffs cross-move in 
opposition and seek leave to serve an amended complaint. 
Papers 
Numbered 
Notice of Motion-Affidavits-Exhibits (A-B) .. 1- 4 
Answering Affidavits-Exhibits (A-D) ......... 9 - 11 
Defendant's Memorandum of Law ............... 
Plaintiffs' Memorandum of Law ............... Notice of Cross-Motion-Affidavits-Exhibits (1-6) 5 - 8 
Upon the foregoing papers it is ordered that the motion to 
dismiss the complaint is granted and the cross-motion for leave to 
amend the complaint is denied. Plaintiff 3700 Tremont Associates, 
Inc. obtained a construction loan from defendant Ponce De Leon 
Federal Bank in the sum of $500,000 on July 22, 1999, in connection 
with its construction of a medical office building. This loan was 
guaranteed by Enrico Corbi, David J. Lichtenheim, Edward E. Sokol, 
Alexander M. Lindsay and Robert W. Maggio. The guarantors executed 
the "building loan & permanent mortgage note" and the building 
loan contract on July 22, 1999. Plaintiffs assert that while 
Mr. Corbi signed these documents as the president of 3700 Tremont 
Associates, Inc. , he was not the president and is a stranger to the 
corporation. Plaintiffs in their complaint allege that the bank 
was negligent and breached its fiduciary duty, in that it failed to 
obtain personal financial information from the guarantors; that it 
failed to obtain a personal guarantor from Michael D'Alessio, who 
negotiated the loan and is named in the incorporation documents as 
the president; that it failed to obtain from DlAlessio, on behalf 
of the corporation, a construction schedule and budget; that it 
failed to obtain corporate resolutions authorizing the corporation 
to obtain the loan; that the bank negligently failed to advise the [* 1 ]
corporation, its officers and shareholders that even with the loan 
it had inadequate financing to complete construction of the 
project; that it negligently failed to examine the corporation's 
finances and those of the guarantors to see if they genuinely 
qualified for the loan; that the bank negligently failed to monitor 
the progress of construction of the project; and that it 
negligently permitted the corporation to draw down all of the 
proceeds of the loan despite the fact that it was not nearing 
completion, and in advance of the percentage of work completed by 
the corporation. It is asserted that the bank's actions will cause 
the loan to default, and precipitate plaintiffs' liability as 
guarantors, causing them damages in excess of $1,000,000.00. 
A fiduciary duty may be created by the express provisions of 
a contract, or by factors such as the length of the relationship of 
the parties, their financial interdependence, and their sharing of 
confidential and proprietary information (Zimmer-Masiello, Inc. v 
Zimmer, Inc., 159 AD2d 363, 365, dismissed 76 NY2d 772). 
However, not every commercial contract or relationship creates a 
fiduciary duty (see, Neumann v Metropolitan Med. Group, 153 AD2d 
885, 887-888). "If the parties find themselves or place themselves 
in the milieu of the 'workaday' mundane marketplace, and if they do 
not create their own relationship of higher trust, courts should 
not ordinarily transport them to the higher realm of relationship 
and fashion the stricter duty for them" (Northeast Gen. CorD. v 
Wellinqton Adv., 82 NY2d 158, 162). 
In New York, the courts have generally held that the legal 
relationship between a customer and a bank is a contractual one of 
debtor-creditor which does not, without more, create a fiduciary 
relationship. (Chester Color Separations, Inc. v Trefiol Capital 
Corp., 222 AD2d 276; Banque Nationale v 1567 Broadwav Ownership 
Assocs., 214 Ad2d 359; Budqet Rent-A-Car, 204 AD2d 1007; Bank Leumi 
Trust Co. v Block 3102 Corp., 180 AD2d 588, 589, denied 80 NY2d 
754; Nathan v J & I Enters., 212 AD2d 677; American Bank & Trust 
fiduciary relationship may arise between a bank and its customer 
where the bank assumes control and responsibility over the 
customer's assets and operations, or where the customer places 
special trust and confidence in the bank and thereby becomes 
dependent upon it (see, Chimento Co. v Banco Popular, 208 AD2d 385, 
386) but there is "no legal authority for the proposition that a 
normal commercial relationship between a bank and a customer 
assumes a fiduciary nature whenever the officers of a company and 
the officers of the bank become friendly" (Chimento Co. v Banco 
Popular, 208 AD2d, at 386). Here, the complaint does not allege 
that the bank assumed control and responsibility over 3700 Tremont 
Association's assets or operations, or that the corporation's 
officers placed a substantial trust in the defendant's officers. 
Moreover, the mere fact that Mr. D'Alessio may have borrowed money 
from the same bank for several years in connection with his 
interests in other corporations, is insufficient to transform the Co. v Lichtenstein, 48 Ad2d 790, affirmed 39 NY2d 857). A 
2 [* 2 ]
relationship with 3700 Tremont Associates into one in which the 
bank is a fiduciary (see, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. v 
Yanakas, 7 F3d 310, 318). Inasmuch as plaintiffs allegations are 
insufficient to establish the existence of a fiduciary relationship 
between the bank and the corporation or the guarantors, the seventh 
cause of action against the bank for breach of fiduciary duty is 
dismissed. 
Plaintiffs' negligence claims are also dismissed. The 
documentary evidence submitted herein establishes that the loan 
application submitted on behalf of 3700 Tremont Associates to the 
bank was executed by Robert Maggio and David Lichtenstein, and that 
they listed Enrico Corbi as a 25 percent owner of the corporation 
and that all of the guarantors, including the individual plaintiffs 
provided financial information to the bank. Plaintiffs' assertion 
that the bank failed to obtain financial information from the 
guarantors is without merit. The court further notes, that the loan 
application lists the cost of the land as $400,000 and the cost of 
construction as $720,000, and that the applicants sought to obtain 
a loan of $720,000. The bank, however, only loaned the corporation 
$500,000. The plaintiffs thus knew, at the time the loan was 
granted, that Mr. Corbi was a named guarantor, and that the 
corporation would have to obtain additional funds in order to fully 
fund the construction project. The court notes that while 
plaintiffs assert that Mr. Corbi was not authorized to execute the 
loan documents as the president of the corporation, they do not 
deny that they sought to obtain this loan on behalf of the 
corporation. Plaintiffs concede that the loan proceeds have been 
used by the corporation, and they do not seek to return any portion 
of the loan proceeds to the bank. In addition, plaintiffs are 
unable to provide any legal support to their claim that the bank 
was required to obtain a guaranty from all of the corporation 
officers or shareholders. Moreover, whether a bank obtains 
financial information about a borrower, or a obtained a guaranty, 
or abides by the contractual provisions pertaining to the 
construction project which were for the benefit of the bank, does 
not state a cause of action for negligence inuring to the benefit 
of the plaintiffs. Finally, as the bank asserts that the loan is 
not in default, plaintiffs claim of damages is clearly premature. 
Inasmuch as defendant bank's motion to dismiss the complaint 
against them is granted, the cross-motion for leave to serve an 
amended complaint is denied as moot. 
3 [* 3 ]
