Fiber-Shield Industries, Inc. v Furgang & Adwad,
LLP
2001 NY Slip Op 30033(U)
April 9, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number:
Judge: Marilyn Shafer
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.[* 1 ]
Supreme Court of the State of New York 
County of New York 
Fiber-Shield Industries, Inc., X ................................................................... 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
Furgang & Adwad, LLP and 
Philip Furgang, 
Marilyn Shafer, J.: Index No.: 114877/00 
In this legal malpracticehreach of contract action arising out of, and in connection with 
certain legal representation provided to Plaintiff Fiber- Shield Industries, Inc. (hereinafter, the 
complaining “Client”) by Co-defendants Furgang & Adwad, LLP and Philip Furgang 
(hereinafter, collectively referred to as the “Law Firm”), the Law Firm seeks pre-answer 
, 
dismiss4 of the complaint (CPLR 321 1 [a][l], [5] and [7]; CPLR 3016 [b]); and the Client seeks 
leave to amend its Fifth Cause of Action so as to characterize and clarify it as a claim for breach 
of contract, rather than ‘over-billing’(CPLR 3025[b]). 
For nearly two decades the Law Firm has, at times, represented the Client in various legal 
matters. One such matter presently at issue entails the Law Firm’s representation of the Client 
with respect to a certain unrelated, complained of trademark infringing business entity 
(hereinafter, the “Trademark Litigant”) In 1987, the Client and Trademark Litigant entered into 
a trademark infringement settlement agreement (hereinafter, the “1 987 Settlement”) drafted by 
Client’s legal counsel, the Law Firm. In1988, the Client and the Trademark Litigant entered into 
another trademark infringement settlement agreement (hereinafter, the “1 988 Statement”) once 
again drafted by the Law Firm. This latest agreement, inter alia, provides for both a notice of [* 2 ]
default and an opportunity to cure. Some ten years later [1998], on behalf of the Client the Law 
Firm served an Order to Show Cause upon the Trademark Litigant’s attorney of record, who 
actively last represented the Trademark Litigant a decade earlier. However, the Law Finn’s 
service upon that attorney was in direct contravention of the 1987 Agreement which required 
service directly and personally of the Trademark Litigant. Even though the Trademark Litigant’s 
attorney promptly advised the Law Finn that he was no longer representing the Trademark 
Litigant, the Trademark Litigant was not served in the manner set forth in the 1987 Agreement. 
The Client’s Order to show Cause Contempt Order was then granted on default due to the 
Trademark Litigant’s failure to appear. However, the Law Firm failed to to tender the requisite 
statutory notice of the default judgment (F.R.C.P. Rule 55[b]). 
Thereafter, the Contempt Order by default was vacated. While the court found service 
upon the Trademark Litigant’s latest attorney of record to be proper, the Client arguably incurred 
unnecessary (order to show cause/default) legal fees in connection with, andharising out of, the 
Law Firm’s failure to comply with the 1987 Agreement. 
Another matter presently at issue entails the Law Firm’s failure to communicate to the 
Client an allegedly acceptable offer of settlement (hereinafter, the “Undisclosed Equipment 
Settlement Offer”) extended within the context of breach of contract litigation involving certain 
complained of equipment purchased by the Client. The Undisclosed Equipment Settlement Offer 
purportedly contained an offer from the defending vender to buy back the complained of 
equipment “for a dollar amount equal to the value of the equipment . . .[not the purchase price]”. 
Thereafter, the parties to that dispute entered into a subsequent settlement agreement which was 
allegedly less favorable to the Client than the complained of Undisclosed Equipment Settlement 
Offer. Arguably, the Client did not become aware of the Undisclosed Equipment Settlement [* 3 ]
, Offer until sometime after the Law Firm no longer represented [September of 19991 the Client, 
and a federal court order favorable to the Law Firm had been issued with respect to a contested 
fee hearing [November of 19991. 
Over the years the parties have been somewhat at odds with one another with respect to, 
inter alia, the Law Firm’s legal fees. Some twelve years after the Law Firm drafted the 1988 
Agreement and some two years after the Law Firm represented the Client with respect to the 
1998 Undisclosed Equipment Settlement Offer, the Client commenced this action asserting 
claims for legal malpractice, breach of contract, “over-billing” and fraudulent concealment. In 
essence, the Client is seeking to recover certain legal fees remitted to the Law Firm for allegedly 
unnecessary, extra services arising out of, and in connection with, the Law Firm’s purported 
failure to properly represent the Client. 
The Law Firm presently seeks pre-answer dismissal on the grounds that the Client has 
either faqed to state a claim upon which relief may be granted, failed to state a claim with the 
requisite particularity, andor is precluded from asserting a claim due to the applicable statute of 
limitations, collateral estoppel, and documentary evidence. In addition to opposing such 
dispositive relief, the Client presently seeks leave to amend its complaint to the limited extent of 
characterizing and clarifying its ‘over-billing’ claim [Fifth Cause of Action] as one for breach of 
contract. . 
While hindsight is twenty-twenty, such an assessment of the Law Firm’s conduct would 
be neither appropriate nor beneficial. Rather, this court is compelled to assess the complained of 
actions andor omissions in terms of whether or not such were objectively reasonable (Rosner v 
Paley, 65 NY2d 736 [1985]; Bemstein v Oppenheim & Co., P.C., 160 AD2d 428 [lst Dept. 
19901). In order to successfully plead a legal malpractice and breach of contract claim, a party’s [* 4 ]
, pleadings must sufficiently set forth that (i) an attorney-client relationship existed, thereby 
creating a duty of care; (ii) each of the complained of errors or omissions constituted a breach of 
the requisite standard of care; (iii) counsel’s alleged negligence was the proximate cause of the 
complained of loss[es]; and (iv) the claimant sustained actual damages as a consequence of the 
complained of acts or omissions (Novak v Fishbein, Olivieri Rozenholc & Badillo, 15 1 AD2d 
296 { 1’‘ Dept. 19891). 
As to the Client’s legal malpractice and breach of contract claims for negligent drafting of 
the 1988 Agreement (First and Second Causes of Action), the barring applicable three (3) year 
statute of limitations (CPLR 214[6]) accrues when the alleged error or omission occurs (Gilbert 
Properties, Inc. v Millstein, 33 NY2d 857 [1973]; CPLR 321 l[a][5] &[6] ). In order to 
successfully toll the statute, a claimant invoking the continuous representation doctrine must 
affirmatively demonstrate that such representation has been rendered in connection with the 
underlyigg particular matter for which the malpractice arose and not merely the continuation of a 
general relationship (Glamm v Allen, 57 NY2d 87 [ 19823; Zaref v Berk & Michaels,’P.C., 192 
AD2d 346 [ 1 ’* Dept. 19931). In as much as the Law Firm’s legal representation of the Client over 
the years has been as to various other matters rather than more p&icularly the recent 1998199 
infringement prosecution of the Trademark Litigant, suspension of the applicable statute of I 
. 
limitations is unwarranted. 
As to the Client’s legal malpractice and breach of contract claims for the Law Firm’s 
allegedly improper prosecution of the 1998 contempt proceeding against the Trademark Litigant 
(Third and Fourth Causes of Action), the pleadings set forth alleged omissions and/or actions - - - 
failure to personally serve the Trademark Litigant; failure to tender notice of default and 
opportunity to cure; failure to tender notice of default judgment - - - which neither depart from [* 5 ]
the established standard of care, nor fail to be insulated under the attorney judgment rule. It has 
already been judicially determined within the context of the underlying contempt proceeding, that 
the (i) notice and cure provision of the 1988 Agreement was inapplicable, in that it did not 
modify the 1987 Agreement ; (ii) service as completed was proper regardless of the personal 
service provision in the 1987 Agreement; and (iii) default judgment ultimately vacated after 
balancing a number of discretionary factors, of which the lack of statutory notice (FRCP 55[b]; 
60[b]) was relatively insignificant. 
As to the Client’s “over billing” claim (Fifth Cause of Action), there exists no such 
cognizable independent tort for which relief may be granted. 
As to the Client’s claim for fraudulent concealment of the complained of “suspicious 
over billing” (Sixth Cause of Action), the absence of such requisite elements as claimant’s 
justifiable reliance [Client previously challenged charges and requested explanationhack-up] and 
the Law Firm’s scienter [Law Firm openly acknowledged feekost increases] render this claim 
fatally flawed (In Re Jack Kent Cooke, 222 AD2d 334 [lst Dept. 19951). I 
As to the Client’s legal malpractice and breach of contract claims for the Law Firm’s 
failure to convey the Undisclosed Equipment Settlement Offer to the Client (Seventh and Eighth 
Causes of Action), such a claim is presently barred in that within the context of the underlying 
matter therein there has been rendered a judicial determination as to the Law Firm’s 
fees/disbursements ( Koppelman v Liddle, O’Connor, Finkelstein & Robinson, 246 AD2d 356 
[ 1” Dept. 19981). That determination of fees was, inter alia, implicitly predicated upon a an 
unrebutted presumption of propriety with respect to the issue of legal representation. 
As to the Client’s claim for emotional distress is devoid of merit in law and/or fact in that 
as a mere legal fiction the corporate Client is incapable of sustaining such personal harms [* 6 ]
[mental suffering and anguish] as ‘emotional distress’. 
Lastly, the Client’s cross motion to amend its complaint is both procedurally and 
substantively flawed in that the Client has failed to include the requisite affidavit of merits, the 
proposed amended pleading, andor any evidentiary proof indicating in what way they propose to 
cure the fatally significant insufficiency(ies)/deficiency(ies) of the original pleading. 
In view of the foregoing, this court is compelled to deny the Client’s cross motion for 
leave to serve an amended complaint; grant the Law Firm’s pre-answer dismissal motion in all 
respects; and dismiss the complaint in its entirety. 
This shall constitute the decision and order of the court. [* 7 ]
