Sheehan v Pantelidis
2001 NY Slip Op 30021(U)
September 10, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0112555/2555
Judge: Sheila Abdus-Salaam
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESEN T: SHEILA ABDUS -SALAAM 
Justice PART 
 l3 
A -v- INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 3/30/01 
158 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I 
I 
I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I I 
Replying Affidavits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Cross -Motion: Yes 0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion and-cross -motion are 
decided in 
accordanoe with the 
 acmnpanying 
 mrandum decision. 
F+ 
'3 Dated: SEPTEMBER 10, 2001 
7 J. S. C. 
1 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK 
X ..................................... 
JOSEPH SHEEHAN and ROSA M. SHEEHAN, 
Plaint iff s, 
-against - 
GEORGE PANTELI D I S , 
Defendant. 
-X .................................... 
GEORGE PANTELIDIS, 
Third -party Plaintiff, 
-against - 
JOE L. MASONRY CONSTRUCTION INC., 
CREATIVE LIVING ENCLOSURE, INC., d/b/a 
CRYSTAL CO., ARISTA IRON WORKS, INC. 
SOCRATES RESTORATION, INC., VERRAZANO 
FLOORING CO., INC., MASCON RESTORATION, 
INC., S&J IRON WORKS, INC., WILLIAM F. 
SAVIN0 and WILLIAM F. SAVIN0 ARCHITECTS, 
JEMCO ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS, INC., 
ELVERA SERVICE, INC., SPACE AIR 
CONDITIONING CORP., and JOSEPH, I. KREISEL, 
d/b/a ABC CHIMNEY & FIREPLACE COMPANY, 
Third -party Defendants. Index No. 
 112555/00 
IAS PART 13 
DECISION 
Motion sequence nos. 002,003,004,005 and 006 are consolidated for 
disposition, and are disposed of in the following memorandum decision. 
In motion sequence no. 002, defendant challenges the propriety and adequacy 
1 [* 2 ]
of the amount of the bond posted as an undertaking by plaintiffs pursuant to this court’s 
January 22, 2001 order, which was entered on January 31, 2001 (the “Order”). 
Defendant also excepts to the sufficiency of the surety, pursuant to CPLR 2506, based 
upon plaintiffs’ failure to attach a certificate of qualification with the undertaking filed on 
February 8, 2001. Plaintiffs oppose the motion and cross -move, pursuant to CPLR 
2507 and 2508 to justify the undertaking. 
In motion sequence no. 003, defendant moves for reargument and renewal of 
the Order. Plaintiffs oppose the motion and cross -move for sanctions pursuant to 22 
NYCRR 
 §§I 30-1 .I and 130-1.2. 
In motion sequence no. 004, defendant moves to compel certain disclosure from 
plaintiffs, namely: a full and sufficient bill of particulars, pursuant to CPLR 
 3042(c); 
complete medical reports, authorizations and other information, pursuant to CPLR 31 21 
and 
22NYCRR $202.1 7; and an inspection of plaintiffs’ building pursuant to CPLR 
31 20. 
In motion sequence no. 005, defendant moves, pursuant to CPLR 3103, for a 
protective order vacating notices of depositions and subpoenas duces tecum served by 
plaintiffs on seven non -party witnesses or, in the alternative, staying the depositions. 
In motion sequence no. 006, plaintiffs move to punish defendant for contempt for 
violating the Order. 
Plaintiffs are the owners and residents of the townhouse located at 114 East 
73rd Street in Manhattan. Defendant owns, and along with his family and tenants, 
resides in the adjoining townhouse at 1’16 East 
 73rd Street. The buildings share a 
common or party wall. Plaintiffs brought this action alleging that in or about September 
1998, defendant’s renovation of his building caused extensive damage to plaintiffs’ 
property. Defendant, on the other hand, claims that plaintiffs caused their own damage 
by failing to seal up or remove their diningroom fireplace as ordered by then Justice 
Baer over a decade ago. 
Four of the five motions consolidated here for disposition arise from the Order 
granting plaintiffs preliminary injunctive relief limited to certain minimally intrusive testing 
(as opposed to the more invasive tests plaintiffs also sought) of defendant’s property in 
2 [* 3 ]
an attempt to assess the extent of any safety risks to plaintiffs’ premises that may have 
been caused by defendant’s renovation work. That Order permits plaintiffs to conduct 
smoke and boiler tests, to lower a video camera into the chimneys and flues of the 
party wall to inspect the integrity of the joints, and requires defendant to make available 
to plaintiffs for interviews the contractors who performed work on defendant’s property 
that allegedly has caused damage to plaintiffs’ property and endangered the health and 
safety of plaintiffs and other members of their household. These tests and the 
interviews were to be conducted within 60 days of the Order, or by March 23, 2001. As 
a condition of this preliminary injunction, plaintiffs were required to post a $10,000 
undertaking. 
As noted, the Order was entered on January 31,2001. That same day, 
defendant filed a third-party action naming twelve contractors and professionals 
involved in the 
 renovation/alteration work on his building. On February 8, 2001, 
plaintiffs filed the undertaking with the court. Approximately a week later, defendant 
excepted to the undertaking but waited until March 9, 2001 to bring a motion attacking 
the bond. That motion, along with defendant’s motions for reargument, to compel 
disclosure and for a protective order, was made returnable -in the Motion Submission 
Part on March 23, 2001, the deadline for complying with the Order. In addition, 
defendant sought a stay of the Order from the Appellate Division. The application was 
denied on March 22,2001. 
The tests provided for in the Order were finally conducted on April 26, 2001. At 
oral argument on plaintiffs’ motion for contempt, brought on by order to show cause and 
made returnable April 27, 2001, plaintiffs’ attorney reported that defendant’s new 
heating system flunked the smoke test. Smoke and dangerous carbon monoxide were 
coming from defendant’s flues into plaintiffs’ townhouse. I issued a ruling from the 
bench directing defendant to shut down his heating system pending a hearing on the 
tests results. On May 2, 2001 , the scheduled hearing date, defendant’s counsel 
indicated that the heating plant had already been shut down in connection with the 
smoke test and that it had not been fired up again. Defendant’s counsel also stated 
that after the tests the building superintendent had disconnected the fireplace and 
3 [* 4 ]
chimney flues, and that licensed plumbers had replaced the gas-fired hot water heaters 
with electric ones. 
These subsequent events render academic defendant’s motion contesting the 
sufficiency and adequacy of plaintiffs’ bond (to the extent that it has not already been 
withdrawn by defendant),’ and plaintiffs’ cross -motion to justify the undertaking. Even if 
they had not, however, the motion should be denied. Contrary to defendant’s 
arguments that the bond should have been an indemnity bond, and that the bond 
amount should have been $3 million to protect defendant, his family and tenants from 
unspecified damage that may be caused by the tests, the $10,000 injunction bond 
posted by plaintiffs complied with the requirements of the CPLR and proved more than 
adequate for the purpose. The tests, once defendant allowed them to be conducted, 
went off without a hitch, demonstrating that defendant’s concerns about the undertaking 
were at best unfounded and at worst an attempt to delay his compliance with the order. 
The performance of the tests also renders academic most of defendant’s motion 
to reargue. That motion is based on several meritless technical objections to the 
Order, such as it fails to provide for (a) reciprocal videotaping of plaintiffs’ flues or 
smoke and boiler testing of plaintiffs’ townhouse; and 
 (b)notice to defendant of the 
manner of the inspection and testing or any notice whatsoever to defendant’s tenants. 
It also repeats defendant’s arguments concerning the insufficiency of the bond, made in 
the separate motion dealt with above. 
The portion of the motion to reargue not mooted by the testing which occurred 
on April 
 26Ih is the contractor interviews. Under the Order, defendant was to make 
available to plaintiffs for interviews the contractors who performed the renovation work. 
To that end, on February 16, 2001 , plaintiffs’ counsel wrote a letter to defendant’s 
counsel requesting, among other things, that the sub-contractors who performed work 
on the party wall and the fireplace and boiler flues be produced at plaintiffs’ counsel 
offices, and that defendant’s counsel suggest dates for the interviews. By then, as 
‘In his reply defendant withdrew his exception to the bond based upon the lack of 
certification of the surety. 
4 [* 5 ]
noted, defendant had impleaded these contractors into this action. This impleader is 
also one of defendant’s grounds for renewal. 
In their cross -motion for sanctions, plaintiffs argue that defendant made the 
contractors third parties so that he could argue that he no longer controls them and 
thereby avoid making them available as required by the Order. At the April 
 27‘h oral 
argument, defendant claimed that he believed by impleading the contractors, he was 
complying with the Order to make them available to plaintiffs. However, he also 
admitted that he belatedly wrote letters to the contractors seeking their cooperation and 
had not done this before bringing the third-party action. 
Although defendant may have had ulterior motives in bringing the third-party 
action, I am persuaded by the argument made in his motion papers that because an 
interview of a non-party is not a statutorily authorized disclosure device, the court may 
not direct a non-party to submit to an interview. Even though defendant supports this 
argument with a single case Cwick v. Citv of Rochester, 54 AD2d 1078, in which the 
Fourth Department reversed the motion court’s order granting the interview of a doctor 
based upon the doctor’s opinion letter in a wrongful death action, and even though the 
facts of this case are different than in Cwick, the legal proposition is indistinguishable 
and I have found no case in this or any other department which holds that an interview - 
- as opposed to a deposition - - is an appropriate disclosure device. (Perhaps plaintiffs 
themselves realized this as they also served subpoenas on the subcontractors they 
sought to interview.) I am also persuaded that this informal mechanism does not 
adequately safeguard either the contractors who may not wish to be interviewed (as is 
apparently the case here) or defendant who may be subjected to sanctions (such as 
are now being sought by plaintiffs) for his failure to make them available. Additionally, it 
has never been shown that these contractors are under defendant’s control. 
Accordingly, defendant’s motion to reargue is granted to the extent that it seeks to 
vacate that provision of the Order which requires defendant to make his contractors 
available to plaintiffs for interviews, and upon reargument, that provision of the Order is 
hereby vacated. 
That branch of the motion which seeks renewal, on the ground that plaintiffs are 
5 [* 6 ]
pursuing an administrative appeal of the Department of Buildings’ permit relating to the 
two-story glass and aluminum greenhouse where defendant’s patio was, however, is 
denied. Plaintiffs’ pursuit of their administrative remedies has nothing to do with the 
Order. 
Plaintiffs’ cross -motion for sanctions is also denied. At first blush, the cross- 
motion seems to make a persuasive case that defendant and his counsel have 
attempted to obstruct plaintiffs from performing the inspections and tests required under 
the Order by imposing conditions to defendant’s compliance such as a higher 
undertaking, reciprocal inspections and lengthy notice requirements. Plaintiffs accuse 
defendant of bringing “baseless” motions timed to further his strategy of “abusive, 
vexatious and dilatory litigation tactics.” Indeed, I indicated at the oral argument, that I 
would consider sanctions against defendant and his counsel. However, upon reflection 
I do not believe sanctions are warranted. While I appreciate plaintiffs’ frustration with 
defendant’s seeming unwillingness to comply with the Order and take no pleasure in 
reading or hearing repetitious arguments, I cannot agree that defendant’s and his 
counsel’s conduct was “undertaken primarily to delay or prolong the resolution of the 
litigation, [and] to harass [and] maliciously injure” plaintiffs -NYCRR 
 §§ 130-1 .I and 
130-1.2. 
None of defendant’s motions was untimely. As plaintiffs point out, all four of the 
motions were made returnable the same date, March 23, 2001, which also happened to 
be the deadline for compliance with the order. Neither that fact nor the fact that 
defendant thought it necessary to bring several motions or seek a stay (albeit 
unsuccessfully) is sufficient to warrant sanctions. Nor are all the motions “baseless”. 
The motion to reargue, as it turns out, is in part successful and, as discussed below, so 
is the motion to compel disclosure. Under these circumstances, defendant should not 
be sanctioned. Accordingly, plaintiffs’ cross -motion for sanctions is denied. 
For the same reasons, defendant’s vigorous pursuit of his right to challenge the 
Order (and to seek redress for his discovery grievances), rather than simply acquiesce 
in its directives, does not warrant a finding of contempt. Plaintiffs’ motion is therefore 
denied. 
6 [* 7 ]
Turning now to the discovery motions, in his motion to compel disclosure, 
defendant seeks a) a bill of particulars, b) medical authorizations and c) an inspection 
of plaintiffs’ townhouse. Defendant also alleges that plaintiffs have failed to appear for 
depositions. 
Although plaintiffs provided a bill of particulars shortly after the motion was 
made, defendant claims that it is insufficient because several items were either 
answered inadequately or not answered at all, and other items were improperly 
objected to, as plaintiffs waited more than three months to provide the bill which was 
first demanded in November, 2000. Defendant’s claims are valid. Plaintiffs must 
provide a full and complete bill of particulars within 20 days of service of a copy of this 
order with notice of entry. 
However, defendant is not entitled to medical authorizations and medical reports 
from plaintiffs. These items are only required where a party’s mental or physical 
condition is “in controversy” (CPLR 3121 [a]) or where “recovery is sought for personal 
injuries, disability or death” (Uniform Court Rules 
 s202.17). Plaintiffs’ complaint seeks 
injunctive and monetary relief for property damage only. Plaintiffs are not claiming to 
have suffered any physical injuries or sought medical treatment, despite an isolated 
statement in the November 13, 2000 affidavit in support of their motion for injunctive 
relief that defendant’s renovation work caused them serious health problems. That 
statement alone does not place plaintiffs’ physical condition in controversy. Defendant’s 
reliance on that statement for privileged medical information is misplaced. Accordingly, 
defendant’s request for plaintiffs’ medical information is denied. c 
Defendant’s request for a further inspection of plaintiffs’ property is also denied. 
Defendant had an opportunity to inspect plaintiffs’ townhouse during the summer of 
2000. His failure to conduct a full inspection or to have his counsel (contrary to his 
arguments, he was represented by counsel at the time) present, does not entitle him to 
another inspection, especially given the undisputed results of the smoke tests that show 
this problem, at least, is coming from defendant’s side of the wall. 
Defendant may take plaintiffs’ depositions but there is no need based on this 
record to compel them, as defendant apparently has not actually proposed any dates 
7 [* 8 ]
for plaintiffs to be deposed. They should be scheduled along with the depositions of 
the third-party 
 contractors/professionals and Mrs. Pantelides,. There is no need for a 
protective order as to these witnesses and the stay of disclosure is therefore vacated. 
However, the injunction against defendant’s use of his heating plant I imposed 
from the bench on May 2, 2001, shall remain in place pending submission of proposals 
from the parties for a long-term solution to the danger posed by the smoke -emitting 
flues. 
Finally, in mid-June 2001, I was assigned to a medical malpractice part. My 
general part inventory was reassigned to Justice Tompkins although any open motions 
submitted as of June 14,2001 had to be decided by me. During the June 22,2001 
calendar - - the first after the reassignment, - - I announced this change to the attorneys 
appearing for arguments on matters on that calendar. Plaintiffs’ counsel was present 
that day on another matter and heard the announcement. I have received letters from 
plaintiffs’ counsel and counsel for one of the third-parties on this case requesting that I 
keep the case. I have also received letters from defendant’s counsel objecting to these 
requests. Because 1 have also received similar letters in other cases where the parties 
disagree on my keeping the case, it would be inappropriate for me to interfere with the 
orderly reassignment of cases. Once I have decided all motions fully submitted by the 
June 
 14‘h cut-off date, as here, I advise counsel (in case they do not already know) that -- 
the matter has been reassigned to Justice Tompkins. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that defendant’s motion to reargue and renew is granted only to the 
extent of vacating that portion of the January 31, 2001 order which required defendant 
to make available to plaintiffs for interviews defendant’s sub -contractors, and the motion 
is othewise denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that defendant’s motion to compel disclosure is granted only to the 
extent that plaintiffs shall provide a fully responsive bill of particulars consistent with this 
opinion within 20 days of service of a copy of this order with notice of entry, and the 
motion is otherwise denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that defendant’s motion contesting the sufficiency of plaintiffs’ bond; 
8 [* 9 ]
defendant’s motion for a protective order; plaintiffs’ cross -motions to justify the 
undertaking and for sanctions; and plaintiffs’ motion for contempt are all denied. 
This constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
ENTER: 
Dated: September 10, 2001 
‘ J. S. C. 
9 [* 10 ]
