Morrison v Christa Construction, Inc.
2001 NY Slip Op 30050(U)
December 5, 2001
Supreme Court, Erie County
Docket Number: 0009513/1997
Judge: Eugene M. Fahey
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.STATE OF NEW YORK 
SUPREME COURT : COUNTY OF ERIE 
JOHN P. MORRISON 
Plaintiff 
V. 
CHRISTA CONSTRUCTION, INC. 
THORNWOOD ENTERPRISES ClMlNELLl - COWPER CO., INC. 
CANNON -ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS 
Defendants Index No. 1997/9513 
EDWARD J. SCHWENDLER, 111, ESQ. 
LAW OFFICES OF EUGENE C. TENNEY 
Attomeys for Plaintiff 
JOHN J. QUACKENBUSH, ESQ. 
Attomey for Defendants 
MEMORANDUM DECISION 
FAHEY, J. 
Plaintiff, John P. Morrison, brings this action for personal injuries suffered 
on November 7, 1994, when he slipped away from a dry wall bucket mounted atop a six 
foot high, movable scaffold, and was left dangling during construction of a veterans’ 
home in Batavia, New York. 
Now, Defendants Christa Construction, Inc., the prime contractor, and 
Cannon Architects’ Engineers, the construction manager, move for summary judgment 
in their favor. 
Plaintiff Morrison likewise moves for summary judgment on liability under 
Section 240(1) of the Labor Law. 
1 [* 1 ]
Defendants Christa and Cannon’s motion is denied. 
Plaintiff Morrisonk motion is granted. 
TESTIMONY 
The Court has obtained the transcript of the entire Examination Before 
Trial of Plaintiff Morrison on February 18, 2000. 
At that time, Plaintiff Morrison testified in pertinent part that he was 
working atop a Webtex Baker extendable scaffold (p. 1 l), fire taping the drywall above 
the ceiling line (p. 17), kicking the scaffold along while standing on it, that he was 
between the water intake and the wall and that he had to get on the bucket to touch the 
wall (p. 18). 
Plaintiff Morrison further testified 
“Q. (from Mr. Quackenbush) Why were you doing that? 
A. There was no way I could reach the wall, never mind the height. 
There was no way I could just reach the wall. 
Q. What was stopping you from reaching the wall? 
A. There was a heating duct and conduit pipe and different things of 
construction coming into the building - - into the room rather, that I 
had to reach over to get to this wall. I probably could get this high 
and there’s no way I could reach the rest unless I was on the 
bucket. You know, I could reach - - I don’t even think I could reach 
the wall, if I remember correctly. It had to be on the bucket 
because I was so far from the wall (p. 20)” 
Plaintiff Morrison further testified that he tried to go back when he 
completed the wall, by pushing the scaffold (p. 25), by moving his hips, and that he 
couldn’t get out from where he was to get down off the bucket because it had gotten too 
narrow (p. 27), that the scaffold had a wheel locked up and would not move and that it 
started going over, and that he started to call for help because he couldn’t get out (p. 
2 
-- -- , ,. . .. . . . , , , [* 2 ]
30), because he was stuck between the heating duct and the pipe, one in front and one 
behind, above his waist (p. 31), that he stopped the scaffold from tipping over by 
stopping moving and that it started to tip over again, that he was not yet in pain (p. 54), 
that he hadn't fallen off the bucket yet, that he was calling for help and nobody heard 
him (p. 55), that he kicked the wall to get their attention and the bucket fell over on him, 
that he was struggling to get it back up (p. 59), that it slipped out from under again, that 
he was thrashing around in there trying to get out when he fell trying to get the bucket 
up, trying to save (p. 60) himself (p. 61). 
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW 
The Court begins by concluding it rejects the assertion of Defendants 
Christa and Cannon, contained in paragraph 22 of its Attorney's Affidavit, that Plaintiff 
Morrison's inability to extricate himself could have happened at any level, even at 
ground level. The accident could not have occurred had he not been atop a scaffold 
atop a bucket, some eight feet off the ground. Plaintiff Morrison was injured as his feet 
were left dangling after the bucket which supported him slipped away, during his efforts 
to extricate himself from the awkward position he had assumed between the two 
obstructions and his work, after the movable scaffold became stuck and nearly tipped 
over. 
"Labor Law Section 240(1) was designed to 
prevent these types of accidents in which the 
scaffold ... ladder, or other protection device 
proved inadequate to shield the worker from 
harm directlv flowina from the aDDlication of the 
force of aravitv to an obiect or Derson (Ross v. 
Curtis-Palmer Hydro-Elec. Co., 8 1 N .Y .2d 494, 
at 501 [1993])." 
The work site here, being elevated, required safety devices to provide 
3 [* 3 ]
exceptional protection against the special hazards arising from that elevation to comport 
with Labor Law §240(1). The devices, first the scaffold and then the bucket, failed, 
exposing the worker to being pinned, a harm directly flowing from the application of the 
effects of gravity, the harm contemplated by the statute, just as the more ordinary 
failure of a scaffold leads to a worker's fall (see Ross supra, see also Sthegel v. 
Hillcrest Heights Development Corporation, 266 A.D.2d 809, 698 N.Y.S.2d 379 [4* 
Dept. 19991). 
There likewise can be no effective argument that the protective devices 
fulfilled their function and that the accident was caused by an unrelated condition like 
the "trip from a ladder" case in Nieves v. Five Bom Air Conditioning and Refrigeration 
Cop, 93 N.Y.2d 914 (1999). The injury here did not result from a "separate hazard 
wholly unrelated to the risk which brought about the need for the safety device in the 
first instance (Nieves supra at 916)," like the hidden object on the floor there. See also 
the separate hazard of the hot oil in the trough in Rocovich v. Consol. Edison COW, 78 
N.Y.2d 509 (1991). 
Thus, the Court notes the stricture of the Court of Appeals in Nieves supra 
at 916 that "(t)he extraordinary protections of Labor Law §240(1) extend only to a 
narrow class of special hazards, and do not encompass any and all perils that may be 
connected in some tangential way with the effects of gravity (quoting Ross supra at 
501)." 
The Court also notes the earlier doctrine of the Court of Appeals in 
Bohnhoff v. Fischer, 210 N.Y.2d 172, 174 (1914) that "said statute is to be liberally 
construed to accomplish its beneficial purpose; that is, the better protection of workmen 
engaged in certain dangerous employments ..." 
The Court finds no contradiction here. The contemplated risks are those 
flowing directly from gravity, not those simply related tangentially to gravity. The pinning 
4 [* 4 ]
here is a direct effect of gravity. 
There is a nexus between the failure of the scaffold and bucket, which 
exposed Plaintiff Morrison to the effects of gravity. 
The Court can only conclude that partial summary judgment on liability, 
under Section 240( 1) properly lies. 
Submit order upon notice to opposing counsel. 
EUGENE M. FAHEY, J.S.C. 
Dated: December 5,2001 
5 [* 5 ]
