Nares v M & W Waterproofing
2001 NY Slip Op 30036(U)
August 17, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0012211/1999
Judge: Marilyn Shafer
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.0 c 
LL w U SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
MARILYN SHAFER 
.*A 
J a uh3tice PRESENT: PART 3b 
MOTION DATE 
fl/ -v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. - 
MOTION CAL. NO. %d?KPWJ - I 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I I I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I' 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross-Motion: 0 Yes 0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 0 3 ( d- 60 
/ 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION fd NON-FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 36 
____________________-_---_--_----_-__-_-- X 
JAMES NARES and PAUL KASMIN GALLERY, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
M & W WATERPROOFING and NTJ ASSOCIATES, Index No. 
122111/99 
Defendants. 
......................................... X 
MARILYN SHAFER, J. : 
For the purpose of convenience, Motions Nos. 001 and 002 
shall be consolidated. 
Defendant NTJ Associates (“NTJ”) moves for leave to amend 
its answer (mot. seq. no. 001). Defendants move for summary 
judgment dismissing plaintiff Paul Kasmin Gallery (“Gallery”). 
Plaintiffs cross-move for an order limiting the evidence which 
will be admissible at trial (mot. seq. no. 002). 
This is a negligence action. Plaintiff James Nares 
(“Nares”) is a professional artist who maintains a studio at 526 
West 26’h Street, New York, New York. The complaint alleges that 
defendant M & W Waterproofing (“M & W“) was contracted by NTJ to 
perform certain maintenance work upon the exterior of 526 West 
26‘t. Street. On October 2, 1999, M & W and/or its agents and 
employees were engaged in maintenance and caused sparks and/or 
bursts of flames to enter Nares’ studio through an open window. 
As a result, a fire occurred in Nares’ studio. One result of the 
fire was the activation of the sprinkler system. Subsequently, 
plaintiffs allege that 2,149 original works on paper created by [* 2 ]
Nares were destroyed, 
prints created by Nares were destroyed, and twenty-one original 
oil paintings created by Nares were severely damaged. 
destruction of the artwork was allegedly due to the negligence of 
defendants. fifteen oil paintings and six photographic 
The 
NTJ seeks leave to amend its answer to include the 
affirmative defense of fraud. NTJ relies on the affidavit of 
Martin Mullin, a consultant in the fine arts field. Mullen 
states that he attended the February 21, 2001 discovery and 
inspection of the damaged works which are the subject of this 
action. He observed what was claimed to be 67 separate works of 
art. He claims that the 67 pieces of art work are in reality 
only 2 pieces of art and that plaintiffs are committing fraud by 
claiming that the 2 pieces of art are 67 pieces of art. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion, arguing that the proposed 
amendment has no basis in fact and is insufficiently pleaded. 
Plaintiffs assert that another expert hired by NTJ, Steven Leon, 
had inspected the damaged artwork in April 2000, and did not come 
up with the same conclusions that Mullen came up with. 
Plaintiffs contend that since the amendment is being sought by 
NTJ after the close of discovery, there is no opportunity to 
depose Mullen and to probe the accuracy of his statements. Such 
an examination would enable plaintiffs to move to strike the 
defense. Plaintiffs claim that they are prejudiced by an 
2 [* 3 ]
amendment of the pleading at this time. Plaintiffs also claim 
that NTJ has not alleged justifiable reliance on its part and 
therefore, there was no fraud. 
particularity, each of the elements of fraud. a, CPLR 3016; 
Desideri v D.M.F.R. Group (USA) Co., 230 AD2d 503 (lst Dept 
1997). This is something NTJ has not done, having failed to .- 
allege justifiable reliance or damages. However, NTJ is not 
attempting to make a claim for fraud, but to use its expert 
testimony to dispute the amount of damages to which plaintiff may 
be entitled. Therefore, while there is no basis to allow 
amendment to allege fraud, NTJ will be permitted to use its 
expert testimony at trial. The motion to amend is denied. 
Defendants move for summary judgment dismissing Gallery as 
The location an improper and unnecessary party to this action. 
of the alleged fire was not a leasehold or other property of 
Gallery. Defendants argue that Gallery had no possessory or 
consigned ownership of any of Nares’ property while that property 
was in the possession and control of Nares. Thus, defendants 
state that Gallery has no legal or beneficiary interest in Nares‘ 
property. 
Plaintiffs cross-move, based on defendants’ motion 
dismissing the claims of Gallery, for an order in limine that no 
evidence, expert or factual, concerning the terms of any sale or 
3 [* 4 ]
the allocation of any sales proceeds between Nares and any art 
dealer will be admissible at the trial. 
In their memorandum, plaintiffs contend that Gallery is a 
co-plaintiff because of the ruling in Swain v 383 West Broadwav 
Corp., 216 AD2d 38 (lst Dept 1995). In that case, artworks were 
destroyed when a steam pipe burst in a storage area of .- 
defendant’s building. After a trial, plaintiff, the artist, was 
awarded the full fair market value of the irreparably damaged 
works. On appeal, the Appellate court ruled, contrary to all 
existing authority, that because plaintiff typically received 
only a portion of the proceeds from sales of his works, he was 
only damaged to the same proportional extent. The party 
obtaining the other share of sales proceeds would be entitled to 
the balance of the fair-market value. In this case, Gallery is 
the exclusive sales agent for the artwork of Nares and, pursuant 
to an agreement with Nares, Gallery receives a percentage of the 
sales price of every art work of Nares that is sold. Deposition 
testimony of Nares provides this information. If Swain is 
applicable to this case, then due to an ongoing fee-splitting 
arrangement between plaintiffs, the injury to the parties is 
measured by the percentage that each would receive if the work 
were sold. 
Plaintiffs acknowledge that since Swain, the Appellate 
Division, First Department appears to have taken a different 
4 [* 5 ]
approach in Indemnitv Insurance Co. of North America v Art 
Students Leaque, 225 AD2d 398 (1" Dept 1996). In that case, the 
owner of a painting received the full fair market value of the 
stolen work, defeating the argument that the gallery where the 
work was consigned was entitled to its contractual share of the 
value of the work. The court held that the gallery only had a 
conditional interest in the painting that was contingent on the 
sale of said painting. Since there was no sale, the gallery was 
not entitled to share of the fair market value. 
Plaintiffs argue that if Swain is the law, then Gallery is 
the proper party to recover that share. Otherwise, Nares is 
entitled to 100% of the fair market value for his destroyed 
artworks, and Gallery is not a necessary party to that claim. 
Gallery is not a necessary party, plaintiffs contend that any 
evidence of a relationship between Nares and Gallery for a 
division of sales proceeds would be inadmissible at the trial. If 
The usual measure of damages for the complete destruction or 
the loss of personal property, where such property has a market 
value, is its reasonable market value immediately before 
destruction, less its salvage value. Aurnou v Craiq, 184 AD2d 
1048(4th Dept 1992). 
this case. Based on testimony by Nares, Gallery had only a 
conditional interest in the artwork and would earn a commission 
only if the sale of artwork was consummated. Here, the court will not apply Swain to 
This did not occur. 
5 [* 6 ]
A commission agreed upon for the sale of artwork is not binding 
if the item is destroyed as compared to being sold. See, 
Indemnity Insurance Company of North America, supra. 
Nares is entitled to the full market value of his destroyed 
artwork and Gallery is not a necessary party to this action. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that NTJ’s motion for leave to amend its answer is 
denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that defendants’ notion for summary judgment is 
granted and the complaint is hereby severed and dismissed as 
against plaintiff Gallery, and the Clerk is directed to enter 
judgment in favor of said plaintiff; and it is further 
ORDERED that the remainder of the action shall continue; and 
it is further 
ORDERED that plaintiffs’ cross motion in limine is granted 
and any evidence of a relationship between Nares and Gallery for 
a division of sales proceeds shall be inadmissible at trial. 
DATED: 
6 [* 7 ]
