Reade v 405 Lexington, LLC
2001 NY Slip Op 30029(U)
August 3, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0110178/0178
Judge: Louise Gruner Gans
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY r 
PART LL 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE A -v- R*@-e 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits 
Cross-Motion : dyes n No I PAPERS NUMBERED 
0 
I- 
W U K W 
LL 
W U 
>. 
3 
I- o 
W e tn W a 
cn 
W m 
0 n 
-I A 
LL 
- 
a 
TF \ 58 
0 2 Dated: 57 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION NON-FINAL DISPOSITION 
HoN. LOUISE GRUNER GANS [* 1 ]
405 LEXINGTON, LLC, TISHMAN SPEYER 
PROPERTIES, L.P., and TURNER CONSTRUCTION 
co. , 
Defendants. 
X ....................................................................... 
DUANE READE, a Partnership, 
Third-party Plaintiff, 
-against- 
ID1 CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. 
Third-party Defendant. 
X ...................................................................... 
LOUISE GRUNER GANS, J.: 
Plaintiff Duane Reade moves pursuant to CPLR - .- 
103(a) and 124 for an order 
(1 ) barring defendants from taking discovery on the sixth counterclaim asserted by 
defendant 405 Lexington LLC (“Lexington”) and Tishman Speyer Properties, L.P. 
(“Tishman”); (2) compelling defendants to submit to depositions noticed by Duane 
Reade; (3) directing depositions to be taken on an alternating basis; (4) compelling 
defendants to submit to disclosure on issues related to the sixth counterclaim before 
taking discovery on it. Third-party defendant ID1 Construction Co., Inc. cross moves to 
(1) dismiss the sixth counterclaim; or (2) to sever and stay the third-party action; or (3) 
to amend the current scheduling order to allow ID1 to participate. Lexington cross- 
moves pursuant to CPLR 3126(1) and (2) to preclude Duane Reade from offering C.L. 
evidence in opposition to Lexington’s sixth cause counterclaim. 
This is an action for a declaratory judgment, which was commenced on May 14, 
1999. It concerns alleged defaults under two leases that Duane Reade entered into 
with Lexington, dated July 6, 1998, for the operation of two stores located at 405 
Lexington Avenue and 666 Third Avenue. On June 5, 2001, the day before the date on [* 2 ]
which the Duane Reade witnesses were to appear for depositions, defendants asserted 
a counterclaim against Duane Reade in connection with an alleged default under the 
405 lease relating to the reconstruction of the storefronts. Reconstruction of the 
storefronts at 405 Lexington Avenue began on January 10, 2000. Lexington had 
served a default notice dated December 13, 2000 alleging that Duane Reade “failed to 
properly fabricate, install and reconstruct, in accordance with the plans approved by 
[Lexington], the storefronts (including display windows and surrounding stone fascia) at 
[405 Lexington Avenue].” At the June 6, 2001 deposition of Jerry Ray, Senior Vice 
President of Store Operations, Duane Reade’s counsel advised Mr. Ray not to answer 
questions concerning the storefront issue. 
The preliminary conference order, initially prepared by the partes, sets date for 
filing the note of issue on July 31, 2000. In the space designated for third-party 
practice, the parties marked “N/A.” 
On May 23, 2001 , after a significant effort by this Court to settle the action, a 
compliance conference order was issued. It provides: 
Plaintiff Duane Reade has not served interrogatory responses and 
documents. This is delaying EBTs. 
Plaintiff to serve interogatory responses by May 25, 2001 or it will be 
precluded from offering evidence called for by demand for interrogatories. 
service of [Bill of Particulars] required. Otherwise provisions of PC order 
shall govern. 
By order to show cause, dated May 25, 2001, Duane Reade moved for a EBTs shall be completed by June 20, 2001 or are deemed waived. No = 
Yellowstone injunction regarding notices of default issued by Lexington on April 11, 
2001. In addition to granting the Yellowstone, the Court granted Duane Reade’s 
request to supplement its complaint to assert causes of action for declaratory relief 
regarding the April notices of default. In its answer, Lexington asserted the sixth 
counterclaim. In the third-party complaint, dated June 14, 2001, Duane Reade seeks 
indemnification and contribution from IDI. 
ID1 argues that the sixth counterclaim should be dismissed because it was filed 
2 [* 3 ]
too late and will delay the proceedings. ID1 also argues that Lexington did not have the 
Court’s permission to assert the sixth counterclaim. Lexington correctly points out that 
ID1 does not have standing to move to dismiss the sixth counterclaim against Duane 
Reade. However, CPLR 603 does not require a motion for severance. Marine Midland 
Bank, N. A. v. Cafferfy, 174 A.D.2d 932 (3d Dept 1991). Moreover, ID1 estimates the 
time for interpleader and discovery on the single issue of the storefronts to be six to 
eight months. While the Court finds this estimate to be unreasona6ly long, and since 
the Court does not wish to reward Duane Reade for its delaying tactics, this 1999 
action will not be delayed any longer. IDl’s motion to sever the third-party action is 
granted. In addition, the Court sua sponte severs the sixth cause of action. 
Originally, the parties agreed to depose three defense witnesses after the 
depositions of Duane Reade’s Mr. Ray, Udo Steudtner, Director of Construction, and 
Anthony Cuti, President, Chairman and CEO, have been completed. Plaintiff argues 
that under CPLR 31 06(a), which gives defendants initial deposition priority, Duane 
Reade as the defendant on the counterclaim should now have priority. In light of the 
severance of the sixth counterclaim, Duane Reade’s argument is rendered moot. 
Otherwise, Duane Reade has not provided any reason to change the order of 
discovery. Moreover, the deposition schedule here, alternating blocks, is consistent 
with Allis-Chalmers Corp. v United States Steel Corp., 94 Misc 2d 865 (Sup Ct, New 
York County 1978), a case relied upon by Duane Reade. Therefore, plaintiff’s motion 
is denied. -a 
For allegedly failing to comply with this Court’s May 23, 2001 order, Lexington - 
moves for an order precluding Duane Reade from offering evidence against Lexington 
concerning the storefront issue. Lexington maintains that the storefront issue has been 
a part of this litigation since July 2000 when it provided Duane Reade with an expert’s 
report that the storefronts were improperly attached. Lexington served Duane Reade 
with a notice to cure the storefront problemsPated December 13, 2000. And, the 
storefront issues have been discussed as part of settlement negotiations on October r 
3 [* 4 ]
IO, 2000, and May 23, 2001. Indeed, Lexington points out defendants’ document 
requests and interrogatories included the storefront issue and Duane Reade produced 
documents relating to the storefront claim. Defendants contend that settlement 
negotiations delayed pleading the storefront issue. Accordingly, Lexington asserts that 
the penalty in the May 23, 2001 compliance conference order should be enforced 
against Duane Reade for its failure to answer questions concerning the storefront 
issue. - .- 
Lexington’s motion for a preclusion order against Duane Reade on the storefront 
issue is denied. While the Court agrees with Lexington that the better course would 
have been to put Duane Reade’s objection on the record and continue with the 
deposition, including questions concerning the storefront issues, having refused to 
answer the questions concerning the storefronts cannot constitute a violation of the 
May 23 order. The May 23 compliance conference order was entered into two weeks 
before Lexington asserted the sixth counterclaim. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED, that plaintiffs motion to bar defendants from taking discovery on the 
sixth counterclaim is denied as moot; and it is further 
ORDERED, that plaintiffs motion to change the order of depositions is denied 
1 and the parties are directed to take depositions on an alternating block basis, as 
originally agreed; and it is further 
ORDERED, that IDl’s cross-motion to dismiss the sixth counterclaim is denied; 
0- and it is further 
ORDERED, that ID1 ‘s cross-motion to sever the third-party action is granted and 
is otherwise denied. In addition, the Court sua sponte severs the sixth counterclaim. 
Lexington is directed to exchange, without paying for a new index number, the third 
party index number for another index number, as if this counterclaim had been filed as 
a new action. The parties shall appear for a preliminary conference in the new action 
on the sixth counterclaim on August 29, 2001 at 2:15 and the partes shall notify any 
4 [* 5 ]
additional fourth parties of the date and time of the conference; and it is further 
ORDERED, that Lexington’s cross-motion to preclude Duane Reade from 
offering evidence in opposition to Lexington’s sixth cause counterclaim is denied; and it 
is further 
ORDERED, that the Note of Issue and Certificate of Readiness shall be filed by 
Dated: 
HON. LO-&&~RUNER GANS 
5 [* 6 ]
