Maheshwari v City of New York
2001 NY Slip Op 30056(U)
September 24, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 112014/97
Judge: Marcy S. Friedman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.0 c- 
W U K 
W U 
W K 
* 
3 
c- 0 W 
cn W K 
cn 
W 
v) a 0 z 0 F 0 5 n 
.I 
4 
LL 
e 
I 
\ SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PART 
MARCy s. FRIEDMAN, 
 J.S.C, 
PRESENT: 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE \ I 
3 -v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion tolfor 
e 
9 
PAPERS NUMBERED I 
NotEe of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... I I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
 p- 
Replying Affidavits n 
w 
08 dr/3 
Cross -Motion: 
0 Yes 
 Po 
Upon the foregoing ered that this motion ,& 
Dated: 
NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: 
-X 
RAM 
 KRISHNA MAHESHWARI AND PUSHPLATA 
MAHESHWARI, PART 57 
____-____-_____---- 
Plaintiffs, 
-against - Index No. 112014/97 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 
 DELSENEWSLATER 
ENTERPRISES, INC., RANDALL‘S ISLAND 
SPORTS FOUNDATION, INC., KEITH KEVAN 
ORGANIZATION, INC. and KEITH KEVAN, 
Defendants. 
In this personal injury action, plaintiff Ram Krishna Maheshwari sues to recover for 
injuries sustained when he was assaulted by two to four unknown individuals in the Sunken 
Meadow area of Randall’s Island, which was being used as a parking area for “Lollapalooza ‘96,” 
a music festival held at Downing Stadium. Defendant Delsener Slater Enterprises, Inc. 
(“Delsener”) moves for summary judgment dismissing all claims against it. Defendants Keith 
Kevan Organization, Ltd. and Keith Kevan (collectively “Kevan”), also move for summary 
judgment dismissing all claims against them. 
Defendant City of New York (“City”), as owner of Downing Stadium, entered into a 
Stadium Use Authorization agreement (“agreement”) with Delsener, the producer of the festival, 
granting Delsener a permit to use Downing Stadium and the parking fields for purposes of 
holding the festival on July 10 and 11, 1996. The Kevan defendants, which were hired by 
Delsener to perform concert production services for the festival, were not parties to this 
agreement. [* 2 ]
Paragraph 4 of the Stadium Use Authorization agreement required Delsener to prepare 
and submit for the approval of the Commissioner of the Department of Parks and Recreation an 
operations plan “for public vehicular and pedestrian traffic circulation, parking control, and 
security from the Triborough Bridge ramps and the access roads to the designated ballfields to be 
used for parking and access to the stadium area.” (Agreement, 
 7 4[a][i].) This plan was required 
to include “the number, location and hours of deployment of licensed security personnel assigned 
to the stadium, the parking fields, [and] Triborough Bridge access roads” (d, 
74[a][iii]), and 
“the location and number of personnel assigned to monitor the Event parking lots * * * and 
provide security in the parking lots* * *.” (Id., 
7 
4[a][vii].) 
- 
Paragraph 
 35(c)(iii) of the contract provided that Delsener, “at its sole cost and expense, 
shall provide, hire, train and supervise all personnel necessary, excluding City employees 
performing duties in the course of their City employment, for the proper operation of this 
Stadium Use Authorization, including but not limited to * * * sufficient trained security 
personnel as may be necessary, including but not limited to uniformed special policemen, private 
security guards, licensed fire guards, ticket sellers, ticket takers, ushers, and first -aid station 
personnel for: parking and traffic flow.” 
The Stadium Use Authorization agreement thus clearly obligated Delsener to provide 
security in the ballfields used as parking lots for the concert. However, an “All Agency Meeting” 
was held on June 27, 1996, during which security requirements for the festival were discussed. 
Delsener, the Kevan defendants, the Parks Department and the New York City Police 
Department 
 (WYPD”) all attended this meeting. It is undisputed by all parties that their 
“understanding,” following this meeting, was that Delsener would provide security inside 
2 [* 3 ]
Downing Stadium and at its perimeter, and that the NYPD and the Parks Department would 
provide security in the parking areas, including the Sunken Meadow area. (See, Dep. Of Mark 
Aronson [Delsener’s Chief Financial Officer], at 40-41, 103, 105 -109; Apr. 13,2000 Dep. Of 
Neil Spadaro [NYPD Deputy Inspector], at 132-134, 154, 162; Dep. Of Robert Reeves [New 
York City Dept. of Parks and Recreation, Park and Recreation Manager], at 68-74.) It is further 
undisputed that Delsener did not provide any security in the parking lots. 
Plaintiff contends that Delsener was negligent in failing to provide adequate security in 
the parking lot where plaintiff was allegedly assaulted. In support of its motion for summary 
judgment, Delsener contends that, even assuming that the agreement called for it to have security 
- 
personnel in the parking lots, it owed no duty to plaintiff as a matter of law. The Kevan 
defendants likewise contend that they had no duty to provide security in the area where the 
assault occurred. 
Plaintiff argues that Delsener’s motion for summary judgment must be denied on the 
ground of collateral estoppel, as this Court has already ruled on the issues presented in Delsener’s 
motion in Florman v City of New York, et al., Index No. 400580/98 (December 26,2000) 
(“Flonnan”), which also involved injuries sustained during Lollapalooza ‘96. 
The doctrine of collateral estoppel, or issue preclusion, bars the re-litigation of issues that 
have been actually litigated and necessarily decided in a prior action. 
 (Kaufman v Eli Lillv & Co., 
65 NY2d 449 [ 19851.) There are two requirements governing the application of collateral 
estoppel: (1) “[Tlhe identical issue necessarily must have been decided in the prior action and be 
decisive of the present action”; and (2) the party to be precluded from re-litigating an issue must 
have had “a full and fair opportunity to contest the prior determination.” (u, at 455.) 
3 [* 4 ]
Delsener’s instant motion for summary judgment is barred by collateral estoppel, as the 
issues raised by Delsener here are identical to those it raised in Florman. Accordingly, Delsener 
is precluded fiom re-litigating them. 
On the instant motion, Delsener argues that, as a permittee with no ability to control who 
came onto the property in the Sunken Meadow area, it has no liability to plaintiff. In Florman, 
this court rejected the same argument. Citing Nallan v. Helmslev -Soear. Inc. (50 NY2d 507 
[ 1980]), the court held that, as a possessor of the premises, Delsener had a duty to maintain the 
public areas of the premises in a reasonably safe condition for persons, including the plaintiff, 
who were admitted to the premises. In Florman, this court also held that because Delsener was 
- 
granted unrestricted use of the stadium and parking fields by virtue of its contract with the City, it 
“stood in the shoes of an occupant or lessee of the premises who was subject to liability to third 
persons * * *for failure to maintain the premises in a reasonably safe condition.” 
Delsener also contends that it had no notice of prior criminal activity in the area, and 
therefore, no duty to provide security. This court squarely rejected this argument in Florman. 
Citing Burgundy Basin Inn, Ltd. v Watkins Glen Grand Prix Cop. (5 1 AD2d 140 [4* Dept 
1976]), the court held that “the contract in the instant case gave notice to Delsener of the need for 
security.” 
Delsener also argues that even assuming it had an obligation under the contract with the 
City to provide security in Sunken Meadow, plaintiff is not a third -party beneficiary of that 
agreement. In Florman, this court fully considered this issue and concluded, citing Palka v 
Servicemaster Met. Servs. Corn. (83 NY2d 579 [1994]), that “by the terms of the contract, the 
services which Delsener was to provide were comprehensive and fully displaced security services 
4 [* 5 ]
to be provided by the owner.” (a, at 5.) Moreover, under the standards set forth in Palka, 
Delsener could not reasonably claim that it was unaware that individuals such as plaintiff would 
expect security services to be performed with ordinary prudence. The court accordingly held that 
the Florman pIaintiff was “entitled to seek recovery as a third -party beneficiary under the contract 
between defendant Delsener and the City.” 
In moving for summary judgment, Delsener’s principal argument is that it is not liable to 
plaintiff because the City, through the NYPD and Parks Department, assumed responsibility for 
security in the location where plaintiff alleges he was assaulted. In Florman, this Court held that 
even assuming that the NYPD assumed responsibility for all security outside the stadium, 
- 
“Delsener fails to show that such assumption of responsibility relieved Delsener of any 
obligation to furnish security as a matter of law.” In so holding, the court noted that the record 
on the motion was “undeveloped as to the circumstances under which the City assumed 
responsibility for the outdoor security,” and that it was unclear whether the City took over the 
security voluntarily or because Delsener’s arrangements for security were inadequate. 
On the Florman motion, Delsener did not annex the entire deposition of Police 
Department Deputy Inspector Neil Spadaro, the witness on whose testimony Delsener relies in 
arguing that the City assumed responsibility for the security, thereby relieving Delsener of its 
contractual obligation to provide security. On the instant motion, Delsener corrects this 
omission, annexing the complete transcripts of two depositions given by Inspector Spadaro. 
Delsener fails to explain its failure to annex the complete depositions in Florman. However, 
even if this court were to permit Delsener to re-litigate the issue of its liability, and even if the 
court were therefore to consider these transcripts, they do not demonstrate as a matter of law that 
5 [* 6 ]
the City’s assumption of security functions relieves Delsener of liability to plaintiff. 
The transcripts of Inspector Spadaro’s depositions, together with the other evidence in the 
record, demonstrate the absence of any dispute as to the circumstances under which the City 
assumed responsibility for security in the parking areas and, indeed, show that the City 
voluntarily assumed this responsibility. However, as this court also held in Florman, even 
assuming arguendo that the City’s assumption of security eliminated Delsener’s contractual 
obligation to provide security, it did not eliminate Delsener’s independent common law duty, 
based on its status of possessor of the premises, to keep the premises in a reasonably safe 
condition for third party users. (&, Burgundy Basin Inn, Ltd. v Watkins Glen Grand Prix Corn. 
supra. cf., Rotz v. Citv ofNew York, 143 AD2d 301 [lst Dept 19881.) 
- 
Delsener does not cite any authority to the contrary. Nor does Delsener point to any 
deposition testimony or other evidence which shows that the City’s assumption of responsibility 
for the outdoor security divested Delsener of control of the parking areas, and that it could not 
have supplemented the police protection by posting private security guards in the parking areas. 
Under these circumstances, the court adheres to the holding of Florman that Delsener had a 
common law duty to keep the premises reasonably safe for third parties. 
Finally, Delsener argues that this action must be dismissed against it because minimal 
security was provided to the subject parking lots. Delsener fails, however, to eliminate triable 
issues of fact as to the adequacy of the security. While Delsener contends that no security was 
provided by NYPD, and points to the absence of any record showing that officers were posted in 
the Sunken Meadow area (Aug. 4,2000 Dep. Of Neil Spadaro, at 25), Inspector Spadaro testified 
based on personal knowledge that officers were assigned to the Sunken Meadow area (Apr. 13, 
6 [* 7 ]
2000 Dep., at 5 1, 162; Aug. 4,2000 Dep., at 116.) The credibility of Inspector Spadaro and the 
reasonableness of the security measures are issues for the jury. (See, Rotz v. Citv of New York, 
supra.) 
Delsener accordingly fails to demonstrate entitlement to dismissal of the complaint. 
Delsener also moves for summary judgment dismissing the City’s cross -claim for 
indemnification. Under paragraph 54 of the Stadium Use Authorization agreement, Delsener was 
obligated to indemnify the City “from any and all claims arising from Permittee’s [Delsener’s] 
operations pursuant to this Permit, or from the negligence or carelessness of employees, agents, 
contractors, servants, sublicensees or invitees of Permittee, except to the extent caused by City, 
- 
its employees, contractors or agents’ negligent acts or omissions.” Delsener fails to demonstrate 
as a matter of law that the City was negligent in providing security to the parking area where 
plaintiff was allegedly injured. The branch of Delsener’s motion for dismissal of the cross -claim 
must therefore also be denied. 
The Kevan defendants also move for summary judgment dismissing the complaint against 
them on the ground, among others, that they did not have any duty to plaintiff to provide security 
for the festival. 
“In order to prove a prima facie case of negligence, a plaintiff must establish: (1) the 
existence of a duty on the part of the defendant to the plaintiff, (2) a breach of that duty, and (3) 
injury suffered by the plaintiff as a result of the breach.” (Iannelli v Powers, 114 AD2d 157, 161 
[2d Dept], lv denied 68 NY2d 604 [1986]). “Absent a duty of care to the person injured, a party 
cannot be held liable in negligence.’’ ((Balsam v Delma 
 Eng’3 Cop., 139 AD2d 292,296 [ lst 
Dept 19881, dismissed in part, denied in part 73 NY2d 783 [ 19881, citing Palsq-af v Long Is. 
7 [* 8 ]
R.R. Co., 248 NY 339, 342 [1928].) 
In a premises liability case, 
 “[lliability for a dangerous condition on property is predicated 
upon occupancy, ownership, control or a special use of such premises.” (Balsam v Delma Eng’g 
Cop.. supra.) A duty of care for the condition of the premises may be imposed on a defendant 
only if it has a sufficient degree of control over the property: “It is clear that control is the test 
which generally measures the responsibility of the owner or occupant of real property for defects 
relating to it.” (Tumsi v Ponderosa Inc., 179 AD2d 956, 958 [3d Dept 19921). See also, 
Welwood v Assn. for Children with Down Syndrome, Inc., 248 AD2d 707 [2d Dept 19981.) 
- 
The Kevan defendants present evidence that they were not in possession or control of the 
parking area where plaintiffs assault allegedly occurred, and were not otherwise obligated to 
provide security for the parking areas. It is undisputed that the Kevan defendants were 
independent contractors hired by Delsener to perform concert production services. (Aronson 
Dep., at 82; Dep. Of Keith Kevan, at 6.) They were not parties to the Stadium Use 
Authorization agreement, and did not have a possessory interest in the parking area where the 
alleged assault occurred. 
Nor is there evidence that the Kevan defendants assumed control over the parking areas, 
or undertook to provide any security in those areas. 
acknowledged only minimal involvement in dealing with security (Kevan Dep., at 24-25), and 
insisted that “we never supplied [security] people in the parking fields.” (u, at 29, 33 -34.) He 
also testified that security was supplied by the City outside the stadium, and that “we just do the 
stadium and the immediate environs.” (U, at 49-50.) Delsener’s witness testified broadly that 
the Kevan defendants’ responsibility included coordinating security for the festival. (See, In his deposition, Keith Kevan 
8 [* 9 ]
Aronson Dep., at 84-85.) However, Delsener does not in fact differ with Kevan as to Kevan’s 
specific responsibilities concerning security. Delsener, like Kevan, takes the position that 
security was to be provided solely by the City in the parking areas. Thus, Delsener does not 
contend that it requested that Kevan provide or coordinate security in those areas. Moreover, it is 
undisputed that Kevan did not undertake to arrange for any security services in the parking areas. 
In opposition to this showing by the Kevan defendants, plaintiff fails to come forward 
with any evidence to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the Kevan defendants had 
possession or control of the parking area where plaintiff was allegedly assaulted. Under these 
circumstances, the court concludes as a matter of law that Kevan had neither a common law nor a 
- 
contractual duty to provide security in such area. The Kevan defendants’ summary judgment 
motion should accordingly be granted. 
It is hereby ordered as follows: Delsener’s motion for summary judgment is denied in its 
entirety. The Kevan defendants’ motion is granted to the extent of awarding summaryjudgment 
to Keith Kevan Organization, Ltd., and Keith Kevan, dismissing all claims against them. The 
action is severed as to and shall proceed against the remaining defendants. The Clerk shall enter 
judgment accordingly. 
This constitutes the decision and order of the Court. 
Dated: New York, New York 
September 24,2001 
MARCY F AN, J . S . C . 
9 [* 10 ]
