Entel v Beth Israel Hospital
2001 NY Slip Op 30034(U)
March 20, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0011644/1998
Judge: Louise Gruner Gans
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: I.A.S. PART 61 --__________________-___-__---_-_--___ -X 
JILL ENTEL, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- Index No. 
116443/98 
BETH ISRAEL HOSPITAL, 
LOUISE GRUNER-GANS, J.: 
Motion Sequence Nos. 001 and 002 are consolidated for 
disposition. In Motion Sequence No. 001, defendant Beth Israel 
Hospital (the ItHospitaltl) moves for summary judgment dismissing 
the complaint. Plaintiff Jill Entel cross-moves, pursuant to 
CPLR 3025, for an order: (1) granting leave to amend the 
complaint to assert a cause of action for medical malpractice; 
' and (2) striking the Hospital's answer on the ground that it has 
6, 
willfully failed to respond to a trial subpoena and violated 
prior discovery orders. In Motion Sequence No. 002, the Hospital 
moves, pursuant to CPLR 3104, for an order quashing the subpoena 
served on it on October 31, 2000. 
Plaintiff Entel commenced this action, alleging that 
she was sexually assaulted on July 2, 1996 in the recovery room 
of the Hospital, while under the influence of general anesthesia 
after gall bladder surgery (a laparoscopic cholecystectomy). She 
asserts that the alleged incident occurred due to the Hospital's 
negligence in failing to provide proper security during her 
recovery, negligently hiring her assailant, and negligently 
breaching its duty to monitor and protect her in the recovery [* 1 ]
room. Entel also relies on the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. 
The Hospital now moves for summary judgment, claiming 
that Entel has failed to establish a cause of negligence against 
it. 
facie showing of entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, 
tendering sufficient evidence to demonstrate the absence of any 
material issues of fact (Wineqrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 
NY2d 851 [1985]). Once a prima facie showing has been made, the 
burden shifts to the party opposing the motion for summary 
judgment to produce evidentiary proof in admissible form 
sufficient to establish material issues of fact which require a 
trial of the action (Alvarez v Prospect Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 
[1986]). The proponent of a summary judgment motion must make a prima 
Relying on, inter alia, Entells bill of particulars, 
4, 
dated December 28, 1998, and Entell deposition held on September 
29, 1999, the Hospital argues that Entel has failed to establish 
a prima facie case of negligence against it, since she failed to 
identify who committed the alleged assault, or where and when it 
occurred. The Hospital also maintains that Entel failed to 
establish any notice of any prior similar criminal activity at 
the Hospital, or that a Hospital employee was involved in the 
alleged assault. Additionally, the Hospital contends that Entel 
cannot establish the critical elements of a res ipsa case. 
Entells counsel concedes that the evidence is 
insufficient to determine conclusively exactly how Entel was 
2 [* 2 ]
injured. However, he argues that the facts reasonably establish 
that she was sexually assaulted in the recovery room, after she 
was brought there from the operating room. 
since Entel was continuously monitored from the time that she was 
operated on in the operating room, to the time that she was 
brought to the recovery room, the tlmost reasonable inference is 
that the assault occurred in the recovery room with curtains 
drawn, or that she was wrongfully removed from the recovery room, 
assaulted and then returned" (Bowman's Affirmation, dated 11/00). He contends that 
He argues that, if the assault occurred earlier, someone on the 
surgical team would have witnessed it, since the records 
indicated that more than one person was with the plaintiff during 
surgery and through the time that she was taken to the recovery 
room. He further alleges that the assault could not have 
occurred after her stay in the recovery room, since she would 
most likely have been sufficiently lucid to remember it. 
Counsel also refers to the Hospital's Policy and 
Procedure Manual for the standard of care for the recovery room, 
referred to as the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (IIPACUtt) therein, 
which states as follows: 
PURPOSE : 
The purpose of the PACU is to provide an 
environment for the patient that supports 
close observation, the means for immediately 
administering all levels of care, and safety 
measures following anesthesia and surgery. 
Counsel argues that the Hospital failed to closely 
observe Entel while she was recovering from the effects of 
3 [* 3 ]
anesthesia, and that the circumstantial evidence supports a 
reasonable inference that the alleged failure to properly monitor 
was a cause of the injury, and thus should be presented to the 
jury . 
Here, Entel seeks to hold the Hospital liable in 
negligence for, inter alia, failing to properly monitor her while 
she was in the recovery room. She claims that a prima facie case 
of negligence is made by the circumstantial evidence that she was 
sexually assaulted while under the Hospital's exclusive control, 
and while 
4, she was helpless, under the influence of anesthesia. 
To demonstrate a prima facie case of 
negligence based wholly on circumstantial 
evidence, I' [i] t is enough that [plaintiff] 
shows facts and conditions from which the 
negligence of the defendant and the causation 
of the accident by that negligence may be 
reasonably inferred." The law does not 
require that plaintiff's proof "positively 
exclude every other possible cause'l of the 
accident but defendant's negligence. Rather, 
her poof must render those other causes 
sufficiently llremotelt or "technical" to 
enable the jury to reach its verdict based 
not upon speculation, but upon the logical 
inferences to be drawn from the evidence. 
(Schneider v Kinss Hishwav HosDital Center, Inc., 67 NY2d 743, 
744 [1986] [citations omitted]). In determining the adequacy of 
the plaintiff's evidence, this Court must consider same "in the 
light most favorable to plaintiff'' (see, Pollicina v Misericordia 
HosDital Medical Center, 158 AD2d 194, 200 [lst Dept 19901, 
citing Schneider v Kinss Hishwav HosDital Center, Inc., suDra). 
In order to establish a prima facie case of negligence, 
a plaintiff must demonstrate (1) the existence of a duty on the 
4 [* 4 ]
defendant's part as to the plaintiff, 
and (3) an injury to the plaintiff as a result thereof (Mesna v 
Becton Dickinson & Co., 215 AD2d 542 [2d Dept], & denied 86 NY2d 
868 [1995]). A hospital unquestionably has a duty to safeguard 
the welfare of its patients, even Illfrom harm inflicted by third (2) a breach of this duty, 
persons, measured by the capacity of the patient to provide for 
his or her own safetylll (Morris v Lenox Hill HosDital, 232 AD2d 
184, 185 [lst Dept 19961, affd 90 NY2d 953 [1997] [citations 
omitted] ) . 
The circumstantial evidence essentially relied on by 
Entel to demonstrate the Hospital's breach of its duty to 
safeguard her in the PACU consists of (1) the Hospital's medical 
records which indicate that she arrived at the PACU at 4:15 p.m. 
accompanied by the OR team, and that she was in the PACU's care 
for approximately three hours (Entells Exhibit C, the Hospital's 
records);, (2) her father's affidavit which suggests that the .' 
Hospital did not know where Entel was between 4:30 p.m. and 5:15 
p.m., when the receptionist made phone calls, on his behalf, to 
inquire as to Entells whereabouts after her surgery (Entells 
Exhibit E, David D. Brady's affidavit, dated 10/30/00), (3) 
Entells deposition testimony that she first discovered in the 
late afternoon of July 3, 1996, after she was discharged from the 
Hospital, that her genitals were swollen (Entells Exhibit B, 
Entells deposition taken on 9/29/99, at 120-121); and (4) the 
medical records from Bellevue Hospital, wherein a physical 
examination of her genital areas, on July 5, 1996, revealed, 
5 [* 5 ]
inter alia, "genitalia bruise on right labia major positive for 
swelling/tenderness, swelling with redness left labia" (Entells 
Exhibit A, Bellevue Hospital records). Entells deposition 
indicates that she was placed under general anesthesia for her 
surgery, and that her first recollection of consciousness after 
the surgery was in the recovery room, when she saw her father 
(Entells Exhibit B, Entells deposition taken on 9/29/99, at 83). 
Her father alleges that Entel regained consciousness at about 
6:OO p.m. (Entells Exhibit E, David D. Bradyls affidavit dated 
10/30/00). 
The circumstantial evidence relied on by Entel does not 
support her counsel's speculation, that an alleged sexual assault 
occurred while Entel was in the PACU, or that she was wrongfully 
removed from the PACU, assaulted, and then returned. Although 
Entells father alleges that the Hospital did not know where Entel 
was during the period of 4:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., the Hospital's 
records indicate that Entel was brought to the PACU by the OR 
team after the surgery was completed, and that her neurological, 
respiratory and cardiovascular conditions were continually 
observed every ?4 hour from 4:15 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. by a nurse. 
Further, while Entel alleges that she discovered genital swelling 
on July 3, 1996, she did not seek medical attention at Bellevue 
Hospital until July 5, 1996, two days later. Additionally, 
although it appears from Bellevue Hospital's records that Entel 
had genital swelling on July 5, 1996, plaintiff acknowledged that 
vaginal specimens taken at Bellevue Hospital were negative for 
6 [* 6 ]
semen. 
Plaintiff does not produce sufficient circumstantial 
evidence from which a logical inference may be drawn leading to 
the conclusion that Entells alleged injury occurred in the 
Hospital, or that the Hospital was negligent in failing to 
properly safeguard and monitor her (see, Schneider v Kinss 
Hishwav Hospital Center, Inc., 67 NY2d 743, supra). Any 
inferences of negligence would be based upon mere speculation, 
which is insufficient to prove negligence based wholly on 
circumstantial evidence (id.) . 
Further, the circumstantial evidence relied on by Entel 
does not afford a sufficient basis for an inference of negligence 
under the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. 
To demonstrate the existence of a triable issue by 
relying on a res ipsa loquitur theory, the plaintiff must 
establish three things: (1) the accident is of a kind that 9 
ordinarily does not occur in the absence of someone's negligence; 
(2) the instrumentality causing the accident was within 
defendant's exclusive control; and (3) the accident was not due 
to any voluntary action or contribution on the part of plaintiff 
(Kambat v St. Francis Hospital, 89 NY2d 489, 494 [19971). 
Entel relies on Morris v Lenox Hill Hospital (the 
"Morris Case") (232 AD2d 184, supra) in support of her position. 
In the Morris Case, the injured plaintiffs asserted negligence 
and malpractice claims against Lenox Hill Hospital arising from 
the poisoning of intravenous fluid, administered while each was 
7 [* 7 ]
unconscious and recovering from orthopedic surgery. In both 
cases, Pavulon, a neuromuscular blocking agent was injected into 
intravenous bags, causing the patients to suffer respiratory 
paralysis. While it was unknown who administered the Pavulon, 
the Court held that the circumstances of the incident were 
sufficient to allow an inference of negligence under the doctrine 
of res ipsa loquitur, in light of the hospital's concession that 
access to Pavulon was restricted to its agents. Thus, while, in 
the Morris Case, the plaintiffs were able to point to an 
instrumentality in the defendant's exclusive control, here, in 
the instant action, it is undisputed that Entel does not know 
where or how the alleged injury occurred or who the alleged 
assailant was. Thus, she cannot point to any agency or 
instrumentality within defendant's exclusive control that caused 
I her alleged injury. 
i 
Plaintiff also fails to demonstrate a prima facie case 
of negligence based on the negligent hiring of her unknown 
assailant. A necessary element of such a cause of action is that 
the employer knew or should have known of the employee's 
propensity for the conduct which caused the injury (Kenneth R v 
Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklvn, 229 AD2d 159 C2d Dept 19971). 
Here, it is unknown who the alleged assailant was, thus, the 
record is devoid of any facts indicating that the alleged 
assailant was in the Hospital's employ. 
Thus, the Hospital has demonstrated its entitlement to 
summary judgment on the negligence claims (Winesrad v New York 
8 [* 8 ]
Univ. Med. Ctr., 64 NY2d 851, supra). 
include Entel cross-moves for leave to amend the complaint to 
a malpractice claim. 
[A] claim sounds in medical malpractice when 
the challenged conduct ''constitutes medical 
treatment or bears a substantial relationship 
to the rendition of medical treatment by a 
licensed physician. By contrast, when 'Ithe 
gravamen of the complaint is not negligence 
in furnishing medical treatment to a patient, 
but the hospital's failure in fulfilling a 
different duty,11 the claim sounds in 
negligence. 
(Weiner v Lenox Hill HOW., 88 NY2d 784, 788 [19961 [citations 
omitted] ) . 
The proposed second cause of action for malpractice is 
essentially based upon the Hospital's alleged negligent breach of 
its "professional medical duty to monitor and protect plaintiff'' 
(Exhibit I, Proposed Amended Complaint, ll), a duty which has 
been recognized in negligence claims (see, Morris v Lenox Hill 
HosDital, supra) . Therefore, Entells application for leave to 
amend the complaint to add a malpractice claim is denied. 
In view of the foregoing, Engel's application, pursuant 
to CPLR 3126, for an order striking the Hospital's answer on the 
ground that it failed to produce outstanding discovery, is moot. 
In any event, she waived her right to discovery by filing a note 
of issue, dated August 28, 2000 with a certificate of readiness, 
without any exclusions (Elqhanayan v Elqhanayan, 265 AD2d 262 
[lst Dept 19991). 
In view of the foregoing, the Hospital's motion, in 
9 [* 9 ]
Motion Sequence No. 002, pursuant to CPLR 2304, 
quashing the trial subpoena served on it on October 31, 2000 is for an order 
also moot. 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the Hospital's motion, in Motion Sequence 
No. 001, for summary judgment dismissing the complaint is 
granted, and the complaint is dismissed with costs and 
disbursements to the Hospital as taxed by the Clerk of the Court 
upon submission of an appropriate bill of costs; and it is 
further 
ORDERED that the Clerk is directed to enter judgment 
accordingly; and it is further 
ORDERED that the branch of plaintiff's cross motion, in 
Motion Sequence No. 001, for leave to amend the complaint is 
I denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that the branch of plaintiff's cross-motion, in 
Motion Sequence No. 001, for an order striking the Hospital's 
answer is denied as moot; and it is further 
ORDERED that the Hospital's motion, in Motion Sequence 
No. 002, for an order quashing the subpoena is also denied as 
ENTER : 
HON. LOUISE GRWER GANS 
10 [* 10 ]
