Premier Capital v Damon Realty Corp.
2001 NY Slip Op 30048(U)
March 5, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0103683/1996
Judge: Leland G. DeGrasse
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.MOTION/CASE IS RESPECTFULLY REFERRED TO 
JUSTICE 
DATED: J. S. C. 
C U 0 a 
s 
ID + 
s ln 
P. a ln 
U 
P) U 
f 
z 
f -. r, 
iij' 
P 
3 rc 
2 
s 
3 rc 
fn 
z. 0 3 .. 
x 
z 0 z z. 
s 
3 z. 0 
ID 
0 3 \ 
z t 
i: 
s cn =r 0 
3 
2 C 
fn 
ID 
I 
5 
P) 
fn n 
5. 
I 
m 
s E. rc 
X 
rc 
VI 
- 
0 
% 
E rn 
51 
v) 
2 C 
rn 
51 rn U z 
2. ID + 0 
a - 0 
In 
U 
P) U 
$ 
f a 
3 
n C 
U 
A i E 
2 ID 
ID 
P) 
0 T 
n 
a 
s 
3 
a rc 
fn 
z. 
i: 
4 0 
\ + c t e 
Q rn -I [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT : STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK : I.A.S. PART 25 
PREMIER CAPITAL AS THE ASSIGNEE OF THE 
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AS 
RECEIVER FOR CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK OF 
NEW YORK, ..................... 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
DAMON REALTY CORP., MARIA PORTES, CARLOS 
P. PORTES, C.P. PORTES ASSOCIATES, INC. 
NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND 
FINANCE, NEW YORK CITY ENVIRONMENTAL 
CONTROL BOARD, et al. -x 
-x Index No. : 
103683/96 
Cal. No.: 
83 of 2/14/01 
DeGRASSE, J.: 
The temporary receiver in this foreclosure action moves 
to hold in civil contempt defendant Damon Realty Corp., (ItDamonlt) 
and its president, defendant Carlos P. Portes (ItPortestt). The 
receiver alleges that these defendants failed to transmit to the 
receiver certain rents they obtained fromtenants at the commercial 
building that this the subject of this action, 5037-5043 Broadway 
in Manhattan ("the buildingt1). The receiver alleges that this 
failure to attorn was in derogation of this court's November 19, 
1999 Order appointing the receiver. 
The receiver also brings a second motion he styles as a 
"cross-motiont' against the plaintiff, Premier Capital ( ItPremiertt) , 
seeking an order from this court 1) compelling Premier to cover 
insurance and security costs for the now-vacant building, Itand 
further requiring plaintiff mortgagee to fund and pay for the 
Receiver's fees and/or commissions and his counsel fees," or 
alternatively, 2) fixing the fees and/or commissions of the [* 2 ]
receiver based on alternate theories, and 3) fixing the legal fees 
of the receiver's counsel. 
The receiver's description of his second motion as a 
"cross-rnotiont1 is a misnomer as CPLR 2215 does not provide that a 
litigant may cross-move against himself. (See CPLR 2215.) To 
allow a party to characterize a second motion as a cross motion, 
thereby allowing that party the much shorter time for service 
provided by CPLR 2215, could result in prejudice to the responding 
party. However, while the receiver initially did not provide 
sufficient time for Premier to respond to the cross motion, he 
subsequently agreed to a two-week extension for Premier's response. 
Accordingly, this second motion complies with the time frames 
specified in CPLR 2214. As there has been no showing of prejudice 
and in the interests of judicial economy the court will treat the 
"cross motion" simply as a second motion. 
FACTS 
It appears that the building was occupied until recently 
by Portes and several companies controlled by him. Portes, Damon 
and Portes' spouse Maria Portes all apparently entered into 
mortgage guaranties with a prior mortgagee. As a result of Damon's 
default on its mortgage payments, Premier's predecessor in interest 
brought this foreclosure action in 1996. 
The current receiver was appointed by the November 1999 
Order pursuant to RPL S 254(10), RPAPL S 1325(1), and CPLR 6401. 
The November 1999 Order provides, inter alia, that the receiver 
2 [* 3 ]
shall collect the rents, issues and profits of the building, and, 
among other powers, allows him to pay taxes on the building, obtain 
insurance for the building, and bring suit to collect rents or 
remove tenants Itand employ counsel for that purpose.It The Order 
also provides in relevant part: 
ORDERED that any tenant(s) licensees, 
occupants or other person(s) in 
possession of such Premises attorn to 
said temporary receiver and pay over to 
said temporary receiver all rents, 
license fees, profits and other charges 
of such premises now due and unpaid, or 
that may hereafter become due; and that 
the defendants be enjoined and restrained 
from collecting the profits, rents and 
license fees and other charges for such 
Premises and from interfering in any 
manner with the property in the 
receiver's possession; ... and that all 
tenant (s) , occupants , employees and 
licensees of the Premises and other 
person(s) liable for the rents be and 
hereby are enjoined from paying any rent, 
license fees, profits, or other charges 
for such Premises to the defendants, 
their agents, servants or attorneys . . . . 
The receiver met and corresponded with Portes several 
times beginning in January 2000. However, after an initial payment 
of $6000, the mortgagor has never paid any rent for use and 
occupancy of the building. 
The receiver moved this court for an order setting the 
fair market use and occupancy of the premises. The court referred 
this motion to a referee to hear and report and by order dated 
August 11, 2000 confirmed the referee's findings that fair rent for 
the building was $16,666.66 per month, and that the fair rent for 
the parking places situated on the property was $1680 per month. 
3 [* 4 ]
Both of these rental figures were retroactive to January 1, 2000. 
Based on this order, the receiver retained counsel 
experienced in landlord/tenant matters to serve demands on Portes 
and his various companies. Counsel subsequently initiated 
nonpayment proceedings in Civil Court. 
These proceedings were delayed by Damon's bankruptcy 
filing on October 5, 2000. The receiver successfully moved the 
bankruptcy court for an order liftng the automatic stay. The 
receiver's papers state that the motion to lift the stay was heard 
on November 16, 2000, but do not reveal the date that the 
bankruptcy court lifted the stay. 
The nonpayment proceeding subsequently resumed and ended 
in a judgment of approximately $214,000 against Damon, Portes, C.P 
Portes Associates, and Maria Portes. The court also issued a 
warrant of possession in favor of petitioner. Portes and his 
various business entities were evicted from the premises in late 
January of this year. 
In the course of appearing in the bankruptcy proceeding 
the receiver discovered that Damon had claimed that it had received 
and retained rent from various tenants in the building. Damon's 
bankruptcy filings reflect that it received a total of $14,600 in 
rent for the months of October and November 2000. The receiver 
seeks an order holding Portes and Damon in civil contempt for their 
failure to turn this rent over to plaintiff. 
4 [* 5 ]
DISCUSSION 
A. The Contempt Motion 
The elements of civil contempt are set forth in McCormick 
v. Axelrod, 59 NY2d 574, 583: 
In order to find that contempt has 
occurred in a given case, it must be 
determined that a lawful order of the 
court, clearly expressing an unequivocal 
mandate, was in effect. It must appear, 
with reasonable certainty, that the order 
has been disobeyed. (Citations omitted.) 
Moreover, the party to be held in 
contempt must have had knowledge of the 
court's order.. . . Finally, prejudice to 
the right of a party to the litigation 
must be demonstrated. 
A receiver, while not a party, is an agent of the court 
who has standing to bring a contempt motion to enforce the court's 
orders. (See Harris Investins Corp. v Sil-Gold Corp., 38 Miscad 
549; 13 Weinstein, Korn & Miller New York Civil Practice, 'I[ 
6401.17. ) 
All the elements of civil contempt are satisfied here. 
The court's November 1999 Order was lawful and unequivocally 
mandated that defendants hand all rents Over to the receiver. 
Defendants do not deny that they had knowledge of the November 1999 
Order, which was served on them and their counsel. Nor do 
defendants deny what Damon's Bankruptcy filings show, that rents in 
the amount of $14,600 were paid by various tenants in the building 
for the months of October and November 2000. It is undisputed that 
defendants did not hand these rents Over to the receiver. 
The failure to attorn these rents has clearly prejudiced 
Premier, as the money could have been applied by the receiver to 
5 [* 6 ]
pay for various costs incurred in maintaining the building. In the 
absence of any rent save defendant's initial payment of $6000, 
Premier has had to pay out of its own pocket for back taxes and 
insurance. Additionally, the lack of rent paid into the 
receivership has compromised the receiver's ability to pay himself 
for the services he has performed and the expenses he has incurred. 
As discussed at greater length below, at the close of the 
receivership Premier may have to pay the expenses incurred by the 
receiver pursuant to CPLR 8004(b) if the rents owed by defendants 
are not recovered or the premises are not re-let to new tenants. 
Defendants' arguments in opposition to the contempt 
motion are without merit. In his affidavit Portes admits that he 
collected the rents, but argues that he "retained the net rents by 
reason of being a stakeholder of the monies that might belong to 
either the [Bankruptcy] Trustee or the Receiver. During the 
course of the bankruptcy stay, it could be argued that this court's 
November 1999 Order was not in "effect," and thus could not give 
rise to a civil contempt motion. 
have any force after the bankruptcy stay was lifted. However, this argument ceased to 
Defendants also argue that the contempt motion should be 
denied because they were not properly served with the motion 
papers. However, the receiver has demonstrated that defendants 
were personally served in accordance with the court's directions 
contained in the order to show cause bringing on the motion. 
Accordingly, the receiver is entitled to an order of 
holding defendants Damon Realty Corp. and Carlos P. Portes in 
6 [* 7 ]
contempt. The order shall provide that defendants may purge 
themselves of contempt by accounting to the receiver for all rents 
they collected at the building after January 1, 2000 and attorning 
all such rents to the receiver. 
B. The Receiver's Motion Against Premier 
Defendants' failure to pay rents to the receivership has 
left the receivership with little money. When defendants were 
finally evicted from the building, it became clear that the now- 
vacant building would require insurance and security, as well as 
other incidental services such as attention to the building's water 
and heating systems. The purchase of insurance alone probably 
would have severely depleted the approximately $5700 that remains 
in the receivership account. 
Unfortunately, the need to expend funds to maintain the 
vacant building led to acrimony between the receiver on the one 
hand and Premier and its counsel on the other. The two sides have 
accused each other of not taking sufficient steps to protect the 
building. Whatever working relationship that existed between the 
two sides has deteriorated badly. 
In the wake of these disputes, the receiver brought his 
second motion, seeking to force Premier to fund the receivership 
sufficiently to allow for the purchase of insurance and security, 
and to ensure the payment of the receiverls commissions and 
expenses. 
Insofar as the motion seeks to compel Premier to purchase 
7 [* 8 ]
insurance it is moot. Premier has done so. 
With respect for the need to purchase security and take 
other steps to secure the building, such as ensuring that the alarm 
system is working and that the building's pipes will not burst in 
the cold of winter, the receiver has failed to demonstrate that the 
funds currently in the receivership are inadequate to cover these 
costs. Accordingly, the motion to compel Premier to fund the 
receivership to cover these costs is denied. 
Finally, the receiver has not cited -- and the court has 
not found -- any authority that supports his motion to compel 
Premier to fund the receivership to cover the costs of the 
receiver's commissions and expenses incurred to date. In general, 
a receiver is compensated at the end of a receivership. (Amusement 
Distributers, Inc. v Oz Forum, 113 AD2d 855, 14 Weinstein, Korn & 
Miller, New York Civil Practice, fi 8004.01.) 
While in a protracted and complex proceeding, a court may 
provide for interim allowance to a receiver (see 13 Weinstein, Korn 
& Miller New York Civil Practice, fi 6401.15; Arenstein v Huston, 
142 Miscad 491), the receiver has failed to make such a showing 
here. First, after Premier's purchase of insurance, there appear 
to be adequate funds on hand to handle any immediate expenses of 
the receivership.' Second, Premier has taken issue with some of 
the expenses, and with the efficacy, of the receiver's actions. 
Counsel fees might be an expense justifying an interim 1 
payment. However, the number of hours worked by the receiver's 
counsel, his customary rate, and a detailed description of the 
work he performed do not appear in the record. 
8 [* 9 ]
The receiver's statement of the time and amounts he has expended so 
far was not timely served on Premier, so Premier did not have the 
opportunity to examine the receiver's statement of the amounts 
due him before the motion was fully submitted. Accordingly, the 
court cannot evaluate the parties' conflicting contentions 
regarding the value of the work performed by the receiver and the 
expenses incurred by him. 
Finally, the receiver's earned commissions (exclusive of 
expenses) to date amount to a maximum of $300 under CPLR 8004, 
which amount is covered by the funds currently in the receivership 
account. 
That the receiver is currently entitled to such a small 
commission despite the extensive work he has apparently performed 
for the receivership arises from an anomaly contained in CPLR 8004. 
Pursuant to CPLR 8004(b) a receiver is entitled to 
such commissions, not exceeding 5 per 
cent, upon the sums received and 
disbursed by him, as the court by which 
he is appointed allows, but if in any 
case the commissions, so computed, do not 
amount to one hundred dollars, the court, 
may allow the receiver such a sum, not 
exceeding 100 dollars, as shall be 
commensurate with the services he 
rendered. 
In other words, a receiver's commission is limited to a 
maximum of five percent of the moneys he collects, or $100 where 
this five percent rate would yield a commission below $100. 
(Friesch-Groninqsche Hypotheekbank Realty Credit Corp. v Semeriian, 
232 AD2d 448; Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P. v Citywide Dev. 
ASSOCS., 218 AD2d 43.) 
9 [* 10 ]
Where there are no funds left in the receivership at its 
termination, the party who obtainedthe appointment of the receiver 
may in ltspecial circumstances, be required to pay the expenses and 
commissions of the receiver pursuant to CPLR 8004(b). However, 
courts and commentators interpreting CPLR 8004 (b) and its 
legislative history have held that as long as the receiver has 
collected some funds, his commissions (as distinct from his 
expenses) are to be determined according to 8004(a). (Amusement 
Distributers, supra, 113 AD2d at 857; Weinstein, Korn & Miller, New 
York Civil Practice, I 8004.9; Bergman, Appointins and Payinq 
Receivers in the Mortqaqe Foreclosure Action, New York State Bar 
Journal, January 1990 at 41.) Courts have so held despite the 
llanomalousll result that a receiver who collects no money may be 
compensated on a quantum meruit basis under 8004(b), while a 
receiver who collects a small amount of money receives commissions 
according to the formula provided in 8004(a) - which may result in 
a smaller commission than a quantum meruit award. (Compare 515 
East 12th Street Associates v Gentile, 160 AD2d 187 with Amusement 
Distributers, supra, 113 AD2d at 857; see 1 Bergman, Berqman on New 
York Mortcrase Foreclosures, S 10.16 [noting "patent infirmitytt of 
statute]. 1' 
Here the receiver has posited two alternate ways to 
calculate his commissions to date, and asks that Premier be 
'The only state case holding otherwise, Klemczvk v Levin 
(144 Miscad 124) contains no analysis in support of its rejection 
of the commission formula provided in CPLR 8004(a). Accordingly, 
the court finds that it is not persuasive. 
10 [* 11 ]
compelled to pay into the receivership amounts sufficient to cover 
these amounts. The first method posits that the receiver is 
entitled to a percentage amount of the rents he would have received 
had defendants paid rent at the fair market value set by the court. 
The second method is based on the receiver's normal hourly billing 
rate as an attorney. The receiver cites no authority for 
compensating him using either of these measures and the court could 
not find such authority. As noted above, a receiver's commissions 
are limited to a maximum of 5 percent of the amounts that come into 
his hands. (Eastrich MultiDle Investor Fund, L.P. v Citywide Dev. 
ASSOCS., 218 AD2d 43.) Moreover, even if the amounts claimed by 
the receiver in his motion were due him he has not demonstrated why 
they must be paid into the receivership account now. 
Obviously, the receiver and Premier both have an interest 
The receiver needs to ensure that his in funding the receivership. 
commissions come to reflect the amount of work that he asserts he 
has expended on the receivership. Premier needs to ensure that it 
will not be forced to pay the compensable expenses incurred by the 
receiver during the course of the receivership. Accordingly, it is 
in both their interests to cooperate in seeking to enforce the 
judgments obtained against defendants in housing court and in this 
court and in seeking to re-let the property. Two or three months' 
rent at the fair market level would enhance the receiver's 
commissions and just about cover his claimed expenses, including 
the fees of his counsel. 
11 [* 12 ]
CONCLUSION 
The motion of the receiver to hold defendants Damon 
Realty Corp. and Carlos P. Portes in contempt is granted. 
The motion of the receiver that seeks an order from this 
court 1) compelling Premier to cover insurance and security costs 
for the now-vacant building, "and further requiring plaintiff 
mortgagee to fund and pay for the Receiver's fees and/or 
commissions and his counsel fees," or alternatively, 2) fixing the 
fees and/or commissions of the receiver based on alternate 
theories, and 3) fixing the legal fees of the receiver's counsel, 
is denied. 
Settle Order. 
J.S.C. DATE : 
12 [* 13 ]
