Lederer De Paris Fifth Avenue, Inc. v Jordan and
Hamburg, LLP
2001 NY Slip Op 30035(U)
May 31, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0126008/2002
Judge: Barbara R. Kapnick
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SCANNED ON 6161200> 
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NE &RK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRFSFNT- 
Index Number : I2600812002 
LEDERER DE PARIS FIFTH AVENUE, 
JORDAN AND HAMBURG, LLP 
Sequence Number : 003 
PARTIAL SUMMARY JUDGMENT vs 
I PART 12 
INDEX NO. lab&Ob/OA 
I 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The followlnO papmrs. numberrd 1 to were read on this motion to/for I 
UMBERED I""" Notice of Motlonl Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits *.. 
I Answerlng Affidavits - Exhlblta 
Replylng Affldavits 
Cross-Motionpes U No 
Upon the foregoing ers, it is ordered that this motion 
/ 
I 
J. S. C. Dated: 
:heck one: VNAL DISPOSITION rl NON-FINAL DISPOSITION 
Check if appropriate: 0 DO NOT POST n REFERENCE [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK : IA PART 12 
___----__-I_______-____l______________l X 
LEDERER DE PARIS FIFTH AVENUE, INC., 
Plaintiff, 
- against - 
JORDAN AND HAMBURG, LLP and 
THOMAS FURTH, ESQ. 
Defendants. 
Plaintiff, 
- against - 
LEDERER DE PARIS FIFTH AVENUE, INC., 
Defendant. DECISION/ORDER 
Index No. 126008/02 
Motion Seq. No. 003 
Action No. 1 
(formerly Civil Court 
Index No. 
3-9740CvN/2002) 
Backqround 
Action No. 1 is an action for legal malpractice arising out of 
defendants' representation of plaintiff Lederer De Paris Fifth 
Avenue, Inc. ("Lederer" or "plaintiff") in an action in the U.S. 
action") brought by Herrngs International ("Herm&sII) and related 
companies against Lederer and several other defendants for unfair 
competition, trademark infringement and trade dress infringement 
based on allegations that Lederer sold replicas of Hermhs' luxury 
products, such as handbags and belts, without HermGs' [* 2 ]
authorization. Defendant Thomas Furth, Esq. ("Furth") was Jordan & 
Hamburg, LLP's trial counsel in the Federal action.' , 
The trial commenced on June 18, 2001 and continued for seven 
days. The jury returned a verdict finding that Lederer had 
infringed on the trademark and trade dress rights of four out of 
the ten Herm&s products at issue and awarded Hermes damages of 
$1,108,111. Thereafter; the pArties entered- into ' a settlement 
agreement pursuant to which Lederer agreed to stop selling the four 
infringing products in exchange for Hermhs releasing it from the 
obligation to pay the damages verdict. 
In October 2002, Jordan & Hamburg brought an action against 
Lederer in Civil Court for unpaid legal fees and expenses stemming 
from the Federal action in the amount of $21,748.00. The plaintiff 
then commenced the legal malpractice action in this Court in or 
about November 2002. By order dated April 14, 2003, this Court 
consolidated the Civil Court action with the malpractice action in 
this Court for all purposes. 
The defendants were retained approximately two years into 
the case after being substituted for plaintiff's prior counsel, the 
law firm of Handal & Morofsky. 1 
2 [* 3 ]
Motion and Cros$-Motion 
Plaintiff Lederer now moves for partial summary judgment on 
the issue of negligence in the malpractice action. 
Defendants cross-move for an order (1) granting them summary 
judgment dismissing the,malpractice Cornplaint.pursuant,to CPLR 5 
3212 and (ii) granting judgment on Jordan & Hamburg, LLP's 
complaint in Action No. 2 as against Lederer for unpaid legal fees 
in the amount of $21,748.00. 
In support of its motion for summary judgment, plaintiff 
contends that defendants were negligent as a matter of law on the 
grounds that 1) they failed to produce documents required by a 
Discovery Order of Judge Scheindlin dated April 30, 2001 which 
resulted in the total preclusion of certain damages evidence that 
was necessary for Lederer to effectively and successfully defend 
itself; 2) they failed to understand the damages element available 
to plaintiff in the underlying trademark infringement lawsuit, by 
failing to comprehend that they needed to produce more than 
Lederer's federal tax returns in order to meet their burden on the 
element of damages, and 3) they failed to research and understand 
the law regarding the equitable fraud defense2 and the rebuttable 
As an equitable defense in the underlying action, Lederer 
contended that Hermes should not have been entitled to the benefit 
of the trademark registrations because Hermes had fraudulently 
obtained the trademarks at issue by making false statements on its 
trademark applications and the Affidavits of Continuing Use 
required by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 2 
3 [* 4 ]
presumptions available in defense of the legal case, and thus were 
wrong in deciding to try the legal case to a jury, before trying 
the equitable case to the Judge. 
In opposition to plaintiff's motion and in support of their 
cross-motion for summary judgment, defendants argue that 1) Furth 
was unable to comply with Herm&s' discovery requests because 
Lederer's principal, Charles Blau, against the advice of counsel, 
refused to surrender the requested information on the ground of 
confidentiality; 2) Furth was forced to use Lederer's tax returns 
in an attempt to mitigate Hermes' damages because Blau refused to 
supply specific information concerning Lederer's profits and 
business expenses with respect to the allegedly infringing goods; 
3) by proceeding with the legal trial first, Furth was able to 
present evidence to the jury which gave Lederer a potential 
strategic advantage; and 4) Lederer cannot prove that proceeding 
with the equitable trial first would have resulted in a more 
favorable outcome. 
Defendants further contend that Jordan & Hamburg is entitled 
to its legal fees in the amount of $21,748.00 for its defense of 
Lederer in the Federal action because the instant malpractice 
action is without merit and Lederer did not object to the invoices 
sent until Jordan & Hamburg brought the action to collect the 
outstanding fees; nor has it contested the reasonableness of the 
amount. 
4 [* 5 ]
Discussion 
During the course of the Federal action, Hermhs made repeated 
discovery requests for documents pertaining to Lederer's profits 
from the sale of the allegedly infringing goods which, for the most 
part, went unanswered. 
Plaintiff contends that the defendants failed to impart upon 
their clients the necessity of producing the requested documents, 
and that Furth himself could have produced the raw data (i.e., 
sales receipts and operating expense documents) that HermAs could 
have used to create an analysis during discovery which would have 
avoided the preclusion Order. 
However, as early as August 26, 1998, Lederer's former 
attorney, Anthony H. Handal, advised Charles Blau and his brother 
Robert Blau by letter that their decision 
not to produce documents and things responsive to Herm&s ' 
discovery requests is going to be the subject of a motion 
to compel. 
Herm&s plans on filing a motion to compel unless you 
comply with discovery ... 
If HermGs' motion -to compel is granted .by the court, 
which is quite likely, you may be liable for Herm&s' 
attorneys fees for bringing this motion as well as court 
ordered sanctions. 
Please contact me as soon as possible to discuss this 
matter. 
5 [* 6 ]
Subsequently, at an April 27, 2001 hearing in the Federal 
Court once defendants had been retained, Charles Blau again refused 
to produce documents which he characterized as "confidential 
documents". The Court advised Mr. Blau that if he did not comply 
with HermGs' discovery requests he would be subject to an order of 
contempt, Further, by letter dated May 2, 2001 defendants provided 
Charles Blau with a list of Hermhs' discovery requests which Blau 
answered only partially in a handwritten response, indicating that 
Lederer did not have some of the items requested or that they did 
not exist. 
Mr. Furth's associate, Jacqueline Steady, allegedly met with 
Mr. Blau to go over each and every item, and Mr. Furth spoke to him 
as well. Judge Scheindlin then signed an Order dated May 16, 2001 
to compel Lederer to provide discovery responses and to appear for 
a deposition. 
At his deposition held on June 13, 2001, Blau again refused to 
answer any questions regarding Lederer's operating expenses on the 
ground that the answers were "privileged" or "confidential", 
Finally, at the conclusion of the deposition, Mr. Blau was 
specifically told by counsel for Hermes that Hermhs would seek to 
preclude the evidence regarding Lederer's expenses at trial. 
6 [* 7 ]
Based on the papers submitted and the oral argument held on 
the record on June 7, 2006 this Court finds that plaintiff has 
failed to establish that defendants' failure to comply with the 
discovery requests and Orders in the Federal action and their 
reliance on Lederer's tax returns in an attempt to mitigate damages 
in that action was the result of negligence on the part of the 
defendants, rather than the intransigence of Lederer's principal, 
Charles Blau. 
This Court further finds that plaintiff has failed to 
establish that defendants' decision to try the legal issues of 
trademark infringement in the Federal action before the equitable 
defense of fraud constituted negligence. 
The papers before this Court reflect that counsel for Herm&s, 
defendant Furth and Judge Scheindlin discussed this issue at length 
at a conference held on June 13, 2001 and agreed, for many reasons, 
to try the jury case first. 
Defendants argue that if they had proceeded with the equitable 
trial prior to the jury trial concerning liability, Lederer would 
have run the risk of the Court finding that the registrations were 
in fact valid, which could have impacted negatively on the evidence 
that could have been presented to the jury and ultimately on the 
jury verdict. By proceeding with the legal trial first, they 
7 [* 8 ]
contend, plaintiff was at least able to present evidence to the 
jury that the trademark registrations should not be afforded any 
weight, because of the allegedly fraudulent representations made by 
Herm&s in applying for them, before the Judge made her finding one 
way or the other in the equitable trial. 
Moreover, John M. Desmarais, the attorney for Hermes in the 
underlying trial, was deposed in this case on May 23, 2005 and said 
that this would have been the normal practice, to try the equitable 
issues after the jury issues. Specifically, he was asked the 
following questions and gave the following answers: 
Q Do you recall whether you as counsel for Hermes had 
a position on that issue, that issue being whether the 
equitable case should go first or second? 
*** 
A Having read the section of the transcript that you 
showed me, I believe my position in court was that the 
equitable case or the fraud case should go second and 
that doesn't surprise me. 
Q Why is that? 
A Because every case I ever had the equitable issues 
are tried second in the court. That's my normal 
practice. 
Q And why is that? 
A It's been my experience in these cases that judges 
like to have the jury issues first and it is their 
preference to do the equitable issues second, because 
they will have watched the jury trial, have learned the 
evidence, will be working on the post-trial motions 
from the jury trial at the time they address the 
8 [* 9 ]
equitable issues and it's easier for them. So I find 
that most of the judges prefer that. 
There's also the subsidiary issue that, to the 
extent there are overlapping issues, the defense has a 
constitutional right to have the jury address the 
overlapping issues, and if you try to get the equitable 
issues tried first, ordinarily you run into the 
defendant's right to a jury trial on the overlapping 
factual questions. 
So as I recall in my career, in the few instances 
where I tried to do the equitable issues first, I was 
told by the court we couldn't do that because of,the 
defendant's right to a jury trial and overlapping 
factual questions. 
*** 
A I don't recall making any arguments to Judge 
Scheindlin or the court in which I expressed that it 
would be a strategic advantage to Hermes to have the 
equitable issues tried second. 
There is no dispute, however, that Mr. Desmarais has not 
been offered by defendants as an expert witness in this case on 
trademark litigation or on any other issue. 
Defendants further argue that plaintiff has not, and cannot, 
offer proof that an equitable trial would have resulted in a more 
favorable outcome. 
Moreover, Furth's decision, even if wrong, was a judgment 
call which is not actionable. a, Geller v. Harrjs, 258 A.D.2d 
421 (1st Dep't 1999) in which the Court found that "a mere error in 
professional judgment [does not rise] to the extent of legal 
malpractice. " See al$o, RQsner v, Palev, 65 N.Y.2d 736 (1985). 
9 [* 10 ]
Finally, it is well settled that "the proponent of a summary 
judgment motion must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to 
judgment as a matter of law, tendering sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the absence of any material fact (citations omitted)." 
filVd.Ct2;: v. Prospect Hosp., 68 N.Y.2d 320, 324 (1986). 
In this case, plaintiff's principal, Charles Blau, who has 
personal knowledge of the facts pertaining to the Federal action, 
has chosen not to submit an Affidavit on this motion. Lederer's 
attorney in this action has no personal knowledge of ,. the underlying 
facts and none of Lederer's exhibits are dispositive. The 
affirmation or affidavit of an attorney without personal knowledge 
of the facts is of no evidentiary value (see CPLR 5 3212(b); GTE 
Marketins, Inc. v. Cn lonial Aluminup $a le$, Inc., 66 N.Y.2d 965, 
968 [1985]). 
Thus, this Court finds that plaintiff Lederer has failed to 
make a prima facie showing of entitlement to judgment on the issue 
of negligence as a matter of law. 
Accordingly, plaintiff's motion for partial summary judgment 
is denied. 
10 [* 11 ]
Defendants have cross-moved for summary judgment dismissing 
the entire Complaint, arguing that plaintiff is unable to establish 
the various prerequisites to a claim for legal malpractice. 
To prevail on a claim of legal malpractice, a plaintiff 
must establish that the attorney breached a duty of care, 
that the breach was the proximate cause of the loss, and 
actual damages (citation omitted). To succeed on a motion 
for summary judgment, the [defendants are] required to 
demonstrate that the plaintiff is unable to prove at 
least one of the essential elements (citation omitted). 
Allen v. Potruck, 282 A.D.2d 48.4 (2nd Dep't 20.01). 
Based on the evidence as discussed above as well as the papers 
submitted and the oral argument, this Court determines that 
plaintiff will be unable to prove that "but for" defendants' 
negligence, the plaintiff would have been successful in the Federal 
trial. 
First, the jury made a finding that several of plaintiff's 
products were exact replicas of, or almost identical to, HermGs' 
products. Moreover, as discussed above, plaintiff will be unable to 
establish based on the transcripts of the Federal Court hearings 
annexed to the affidavits submitted, that the preclusion Order was 
a result of defendants' negligence, rather than plaintiff's own 
knowing refusal to produce the documents to back up the damages 
claim. 
11 [* 12 ]
Finally, as noted above, defendant Furth's decision as to the 
order of the trials, even if wrong, could at worst be considered an 
error in judgment "which does not rise to the level of 
malpractice". Rosner v. Paley, supra at 738. 
Accordingly, defendants' cross-motion to dismiss the 
malpractice Complaint is granted. The Complaint in ,. Action No. 1 is 
dismissed in its entirety with prejudice and with costs and 
disbursements to be calculated by the Clerk upon submission of a 
Bill of Costs. 
Furthermore, Jordan & ..Jmburg is granted legal fees in Action 
No. 2 in the amount of $21,748.00 with interest to be calculated by 
the Clerk from December 14, 2001 for its defense of plaintiff 
the Federal action. The Clerk may enter judgment Lederer in 
accordingly 
This constitutes 
Dated: May 31, 2007 the decision and order of this.Court [* 13 ]
