Levin v PriceWaterhouseCoopers, LLC
2001 NY Slip Op 30045(U)
November 21, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 0110886/2000
Judge: Helen E. Freedman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
0 I- n 
w 
2 Justice PART 39 
/ 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
-v- 
l3-U) MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... I i I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
I 
a 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross -Motion: 0 Yes 
\p4 NO 
.. - ; 
- . : 
J-:.? ip, 
cl;.:orZ.cnce 
1 
Ti. 
1 
 L. 
- 
- 
- - Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
,. . 
.~ .. - .. 
. 
- 
 ~ 
- .. . . . . . . .. . . 
- . 
- . . . . . .. \ 
.. , , .'.. '..., ... . __. 
-..,---.;--I-._. 
.. .. . 
J. S. C. 
 -. 
Check one: 0 FINAL DISPOSITION NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
\ SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 39 
NEIL D. LEVIN, Superintendent of Insurance 
of the State of New York, as Liquidator of 
HOME MUTUAL INSURANCE 
 COMPANY 
OF BINGHAMTON, NY and NEW YORK 
MERCHANT BAKERS INSURANCE COMPANY, ......................................................................... X 
Plaintiff, 
- against - 
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS, LLP, 
E/d/b/a/ Coopers & Lybrand, et al., Index No.: 110886/00 
DECISION 
i HELEN FREEDMAN, J. 
The Superintendent of Insurance, as liquidator (the 
“Superintendent”), brings this 
action on behalf of two now-defunct insurance companies, Home Mutual Insurance 
Company of Binghamton (“Home 
 Mutual”) and Merchant Bakers Insurance Company 
(“Merchant Bakers”), their policyholders, and other creditors against 
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, LLP 
 (“Coopers”), the accounting Arm that audited some of the 
Companies’ 1993 -1 997 financial statements, and former company officers and directors, 
alleging, inter alia, that Coopers failed to properly audit the companies, which ultimately 
become insolvent and seeking damages of at least $100,000,000. The complaint alleges 
sixteen causes of action, seven of which are asserted against Coopers: Fraud and Deceit; 
Negligent Misrepresentation; Professional 
 MalpracticelNegligence; Breach of Fiduciary 
Duty; Aiding and Abetting Officers and Directors’ Wrongdoing; Breach of Contract; and 
Insurance Law Violations. [* 2 ]
Coopers now moves to dismiss the complaint against it in lieu of answering pursuant 
to CPLR 321 l(a) and 3016, on statute of limitations grounds, for failure to state a cause of 
action, failure to plead fraud with the requisite particularity, and duplicity of claims. 
Allegations .- . 
The complaint alleges that Home Mutual and Merchant Bakers were property 
casualty insurers specializing in automobile insurance. Throughout the years 1993 to July 
1997, Coopers’ served as “auditors, actuaries and business advisors” to Home Mutual, 
Merchant Bakers, and non-party Home State Holdings, Inc.*, the former holding company 
of Merchant Bakers and former manager of Home Mutual (“Home State”; hereafter Home 
Mutual, Merchant Bakers and Home State are defined as the 
“Companies”). Coopers 
I\ 
allegedly 
 “audit[ed] [the Companies’] financial statements and applicable portions of the 
consolidated financial statements of Home State, and opin[ed] and 
provid[ed] insurance 
industry advice as to the internal controls and practices of these entities, including as to loss 
reserves and reinsurance accounting.” 
* 
7 
Coopers performed the following audit services for the Companies: for Home State, 
Coopers audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended 
December 3 1 1993 -96, issuing reports that Home State included in its Annual Reports on 
‘In 1998 Coopers & Lybrand, LLP merged with Price Waterhouse to form 
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, LLP. 
’Home State is an insurance holding company which from 1993 -1 997 conducted its 
business through its insurance subsidiaries, including Home Mutual and Merchant Bakers. 
In 1998, Home State filed a Voluntary Petition for Reorganization pursuant to Chapter 1 1 
of the Bankruptcy Code, and has continued in possession of its business and property. 
2 [* 3 ]
, Form 10-K. Coopers issued its’last audit report to Home State on March 3 1 , 1997. Each 
audit was conducted and each report issued pursuant to aperies of Letters of Arrangement 
between Coopers and Home State. Home State also hired Coopers to audit its statements for 
1996, but Coopers resigned, for reasons discussed below, before completing the audit or 
issuing the report. 
For Home Mutual, Coopers audited the Company’s statutory-basis financial 
statements for the years ended December 3 1 , 1993-95, pursuant to Letters of Arrangement. 
The last report was issued on September 6, 1996. 
For Merchant Bakers, Coopers audited the Company’s statutory -basis financial 
statements for the year ended December 31, 1995, pursuant to a Letter of Arrangement; 
Coopers issued its report on March 14, 1996. Merchant Bakers also hired Coopers to audit I, 
its statements for 1996, but Coopers resigned before completing the audit or issuing the 
report. 
In each report that it issued for the Companies, Coopers stated that, in its unqualified 
opinion, the Companies had fairly presented their financial statements in all material 
respects, that those statements could be relied upon, and that the statements complied with 0 
9 
all reporting requirements. 
The Superintendent also alleges that Coopers, as actuary, issued actuarial opinions 
on Home Mutual’s and Merchant Baker’s loss reserves, including its loss and loss adjustment 
and expense reserves, as of December 3 1 , 1996. 
The complaint next alleges that Coopers performed other professional services for 
the Companies. Coopers 
 “review[ed]” the quarterly statements that Home State filed with 
3 [* 4 ]
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), but neither audited these quarterly 
\ statements nor reviewed them before their release. The last such quarterly statement was 
filed in 1996. Coopers also reviewed Home Mutual’s quarterly statutory filings for the years 
1993 through 1997, and reviewed Merchant Baker’s filings for the years 1995 through 1997, 
again without auditing them. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that Coopers acted as a “consultant” for the Companies: 
Coopers represented, promised and agreed that it would provide insurance 
industry advice, expert opinion, and guidance as to specific areas of risk to 
[the Companies] and audit as to such areas with a heightened degree of care, 
including as to such areas as internal controls, claims, loss reserves, 
reinsurance, policy acquisition costs, underwriting, the premium cycle and the 
overall financial soundness of [the Companies.] 
Despite Coopers’ audits, it is alleged that the Companies’ 
 finkcia1 statements 
contained material misstatements and omissions with respect to their true condition. Among 
other deficiencies, the Companies understated their loss reserves and misstated their 
reinsurance accounts by overstating their reinsurance profit -sharing accruals. As a result, 
the Companies’ statements of earnings and shareholder equity were inflated. In addition, the 
Companies disguised and concealed that they lacked adequate ihternal management controls 
causing the Companies to write ever-increasing volumes of new business based upon the 
false financial information that Coopers had audited. 
Shortly after Coopers issued its audit opinion for Home State’s 1996 financial 
statements, the complaint alleges, the truth about the Companies’ finances began to come 
out. In May 1997, Home State filed a Notification of Late Filing for its financial statements 
for the quarter ending March 3 1 , 1997 because of “[flactors including review of case reserve 
4 [* 5 ]
development and adjustments to balance sheet items.” In June 1997, a Home State filing 
indicated that, until it had determined why it suffered substantial 
 opp-ating losses in fhe first 
quarter of 1997, its 1996 financial statements and Coopers’ related audit report “should not 
be relied upon.” 
In July 1997, Coopers withdrew its audit opinions on the ground that the Companies 
had misstated their financial statements since 1994 and that the Companies lacked sufficient 
internal controls. Coopers resigned as auditor for the Companies on July 15, 1997. In 
August 1997, Home Mutual and Merchant Bakers were declared insolvent and placed in 
rehabilitation. In January 1998, the Home Mutual and Merchant Bakers’ rehabilitation 
proceedings were converted to liquidation proceedings. 
The Superintendent alleges that Coopers knew about the internal control lapses and 
other problems that plagued the Companies as early as 1993, yet Coopers ignored or 
concealed these problems, ultimately causing their insolvency, and leaving the New York 
Property/Casualty Insurance Fund, the New York Public Motor Vehicle Liability Security 
Fund, and the New York insurance -buying public responsible3 for losses estimated at over r 
t 
$100,000,000. 
Discussion - 
MalDractice/NegliPence 
The professional 
 malpracticehegligence claim against Coopers is dismissed as time- 
barred by the three year statute of limitations set forth in CPLR 214(6). Actions for 
’These state security funds are financed through assessments on insurance companies 
doing business in New York which, in turn, pass the costs on to policyholders through their 
premiums.. 
5 [* 6 ]
accountant malpractice generally accrue “on the date the accountant’s work product is 
received by the client.” Ackerman v. Price Waterhouse, 84 N.Y.2d 535,541 
 (1\994). Here, 
Coopers delivered its only audit report for Merchant Bakers by March 14, 1996, its final 
report for Home Mutual by September 9,1996, and its final report for Home State by March 
3 1,1997, i.e., more than three years before plaintiff commenced this action on May 12,2000. 
The Superintendent claims that the statute of limitations was tolled by Coopers’ 
continuous representation, but that doctrine applies only when the ongoing representation is 
“continuous” and “related to the particular duty breached.” Nafl. Life Ins. Co. v. Frank B. 
Hall & Co., 67 N.Y.2d 102 1,1023 (1 986). The continuous representation must be connected 
with the matter in dispute, and not merely a continuing, general professional relationship. 
Id. Here, the Superintendent contends that Coopers audited the companies’ statements i, 
negligently, inasmuch as it overlooked the misstatements in the companies’ financial 
statements. The Superintendent further alleges that, after Coopers resigned in 1996, it 
continued to perform 
 “corrective” auditing work for the Companies as late as May 
the Superintendent cannot relate any such work to the allegedly defective audits. 0 
t 1997, but 
Since the audits form the only basis for the Superintendent’s malpractice claim, there 
was no continuous representation. Each audit was a discrete service, ending with Coopers’ 
delivery of an annual audit letter to the Companies. Moreover, the Companies signed 
separate engagement letters for each fiscal year, pursuant to which Coopers agreed to audit 
the Companies for that year. Inasmuch as there was no continuous representation, the statute 
of limitations was not tolled. 
6 [* 7 ]
The Superintendent claims that Coopers’ continuously represented the companies “on 
\ an ongoing basis” by 
“focus[ing] on the claims, reinsurance accounting, 
 un+rwriting and 
internal controls which were identified as key audit areas of particular concern at the 
companies.” (emphasis supplied) But here the Superintendent concedes that Coopers 
focused on these matters during its audits, which themselves were discrete services. Thus 
the malpractice claim must be dismissed as untimely. 
Fraud, Breach of Contract, Breach of Fiduciarv 
The Superintendent’s fraud claim is dismissed for failure to state a claim; the fraud, 
breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent 
 misrepresentati’on claims are 
dismissed because they duplicate the malpractice claim. See, Sane Realtv Corporation v. 
Proskauer Rose, L.L.P., 251 A.D.2d 35 (1” Dept. 1998). “Where, as here, a fraud claim is 
asserted in connection with charges of professional malpractice, it is sustainable only to the 
extent that it is premised upon one or more affirmative, intentional 
 misrepiesentations - that 
is, something more egregious than mere ‘concealment or faifure to disclose [one’s] own 
malpractice’ . . . - which have caused additional damages, separate and distinct from those 
generated by the alleged malpractice.” White of Lake George, Inc. v Bell, 25 1 AD2d 777, 
778 
(3‘d Dept. 1998); see also, Meccav. Shang, 258 AD2d 569 
(2”d Dept. 1999); Sage Realtv 
v. Proskauer Rose L.L.P., supra. The Superintendent’s fraud cause of action, with respect 
to which no distinct damages are claimed, alleges that Coopers made material 
misrepresentations and omissions to induce Merchant Bakers and Home Mutual to keep 
7 [* 8 ]
Coopers as their auditor and “to cover up and avoid the repercussions of the falsity of its 
prior representations and the deficiencies of its prior work.” The Superintendent further 
 \. 
alleges that Coopers failed to independently veri@ the Companies’ financial statements, 
allowed misstatements of loss reserves and reinsurance accounting, and failed to take steps 
to correct internal management problems; but that is the same misconduct alleged in the 
malpractice cause of action. In short, notwithstanding the Superintendent’s numerous and 
detailed allegations, the 
bud cause of action alleges conduct amounting to negligence, rather 
than an intent by Coopers to mislead Home Mutual or Merchant Bakers to their detriment. 
“Negligence in an accountant’s purported departure from professional standards, no matter 
how well particularized, does not make out 
fraud[.]” LaSalle National Bank v Ernst and 
I, 
Young, 285 A.D.2d 101 (1” Dept. 2001). 
Under CPLR 2 14(6), a plaintiff must begin an accounting malpractice action within 
three years of accrual “regardless of whether the underlying theory is based in contract or 
tort.” See David v. Isaacson, Robustelli, Fox, Fine, Greco & Fogelgaren, P.C., 258 A.D.2d 
321, 321-22 (1st Dept. 1999) (finding claims for legal malpractice, fraud and breach of 
fiduciary duty were time-by the three -year statute of limitations for malpractice claims). 
* 
t 
Here, the Superintendent does not allege a contractual obligation on the part of Coopers, nor 
the breach thereof, beyond Cooper’s duty to perform its services pursuant to generally 
accepted auditing and accounting practices pursuant to the Letters 
 ofhangement. A breach 
of contract claim premised solely on an accountant’s failure to exercise due care, or to abide 
by general professional standards, is merely a redundant pleading of a malpractice claim. 
Sage Realty v Proskauer Rose L.L.P., supra, at 38-39. 
8 [* 9 ]
The Superintendent’s breach of fiduciary duty and negligent misrepresentation causes 
of action also duplicate the malpractice claim, since they “arise 
 from the same facts ./ 
+ [the] 
legal malpractice claim and do not allege distinct damages.” Mecca v Shanq, supra, at 570. 
See also, White of Lake George v Bell, supra; Sage Realty Corp. v Proskauer Rose, supra. 
AidinP 
 - and Abettinq Officers’ and Directors’ 
 WronPdoing 
In the fifth cause of action, the Superintendent alleges that the individual defendants, 
as officers and directors of the Companies, “owed Merchant Bakers and Home Mutual and 
their policyholders and other creditors the fiduciary and other duties of an officer and 
director,” that the individual defendants breached such duties by manipulating and falsifying I, 
the companies’ financials, and that “Coopers was aware of such breaches qd rendered 
substantial assistance to the 
[ilndividual 
 [dlefendants in committing them.” Coopers 
allegedly “was aware of the control deficiencies making the foregoing manipulations possible 
and of [defendant] Abidor’s domination of Merchant Bakers and Home Mutual, but ignored 
such matters and numerous red flags as to improper practices and procedures, passively 
? 
accepting the individual defendant’s version of events.” Finally, the Superintendent alleges 
that “Coopers was aware of substantial problems with the financial reporting of the [sic] 
Home State, but ignored the warning signs . . . and failed to take necessary audit steps to 
adequately investigate and evaluate such matters.” 
These allegations are insufficient to state a cause of action for aiding and abetting a 
breach of fiduciary duty, the elements of which include (1) a breach by a fiduciary of 
9 [* 10 ]
obligations to another; (2) the defendant’s knowing inducement of, or participation in, such 
breach, and (3) damages as a result of the breach. S & K Sales Comuany v Nike, Inc., 816 
\. 
F.2d 843,847 
 (2nd Cir 1987); see also, Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. v Baalev, 205 AD2d 
467 (1 
St Dept 1994) (citing S & K Sales Companv v Nike, supra). Moreover, “an essential 
element of aiding and abetting is that the defendant give ‘substantial assistance or 
encouragement’ to the primary wrongdoer.” Portnoy v The American Tobacco Company, 
1997 WL 638800 (Sup Ct NY County 1997); see also, Rostuca Holdings, Ltd v Polo, 23 1 
AD2d 402 (lst Dept 1996) (aiding and abetting requires substantial assistance in 
accomplishing the underlying violations). The Superintendent’s allegations that Coopers 
ignored or permitted the alleged breaches by the individual defendants falls short of the 
required “substantial assistance” necessary to sustain a cause of action for aiding and 2, 
abetting. 
Insurance Law Violations 
Finally, the Superintendent’s causes of action based on alleged violations of the 
v 
Insurance Law are dismissed as barred by the three -year statute of limitations applicable to 
! 
actions to recover upon a liability created by statute. CPLR 214(2); Goldberg: v 
Manufacturers Life Insurance 
 ComDany, 242 AD2d 175 (1’‘ Dept 1998); see also, Dolce v 
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, 272 AD2d 432 
(2nd Dept 2000); Russo v 
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance 
 ComDanv, 274 AD2d 878 
(3rd Dept 2000). The statute 
of limitations on these causes of action began to run at the time the false or misleading 
statements were made, see generally, Goldberg v Manufacturers Life Insurance Company, 
supra, at 180, in the present case, at the time Coopers issued its opinions. 
10 [* 11 ]
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that Coopers’ motion to dismiss the complaint is granted, and the .f first, 
second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are severed and dismissed, and the 
> 
fifteenth cause of action is severed and dismissed as against Coopers, and it is further 
ORDERED that the remainder of the action shall continue, and it is further 
ORDERED that the remaining parties are directed to appear for a preliminary 
conference before the Court on January 8,2002, in Part 39, at 9:30 a.m. 
Dated: November 2 I, 200 1 ENTER: 
J.S.C. 
? 
11 [* 12 ]
