Riddick v City of New York
2001 NY Slip Op 30024(U)
June 22, 2001
Supreme Court, New YorkCounty
Docket Number: 0102820/8201
Judge: Marcy S. Friedman
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.W 
v) a 0 SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
MARCY S. FRIEDMAN, J.S.C. PRESENT: PART g7 
Justice 
-v- MOTION DATE 
./ 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
were read on this motion to/for mu+ & The following papers, numbered 1 to 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross-Motion: 0 Yes 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion c< wd & 
. 
Check one: [7 FINAL DISPOSITION dNON-FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK - PART 57 
al.9 
D@hnt(s) ~~ 
ERNEST RIDDICK, 
DECISION/ORDER I Index No.:102820/1999 Plaintiff(s) 
against Motion Seq. No.: 003 THE CITY OF NEW YORK, et 
Present: Hon. MARCYFRIEDMAN 
Acting Justice, Supreme Court 
Recitation, as required by CPLR 2219(a), of the papers considered in the review of this 
motion to/for: 
Papers Numbered 
1 Notice of Motion and Affidavits Annexed 
Notice of Cross Motion and Affidavits Annexed .............. .................. 
AnsweringAfZdavits 2 
Reply Affidavits 3 .................................. 
...................................... 
4 Other - D. Memo of Law ............................... 
Upon the foregoing cited papers, the DecisiodOrder on this motion is as follows: 
In this action for employment discrimination, plaintiff alleges that he was terminated from 
his employment as a police officer based on his disability of alcoholism. Defendants City of New 
York (“City’) and New York City Police Department move to vacate a prior discovery order on 
the ground that the information sought by plaintiff is protected from disclosure by federal law. 
At issue here is information initially sought by plaintiff in interrogatories dated February 
28,2000. Interrogatory No. 1 states: ‘Enumerate each and every actively employed police 
officer, since January 1,1990, who was arrested for the crimes of assault in the third degree, 
resisting arrest or any crime of domestic violence. With reference to each, enumerate the police [* 2 ]
Page 2 
officer’s command, the disposition of the criminal action and what, if any disciplinary action was 
taken against such police officer.” 
Interrogatory No. 2 states: “For each such police officer identifed in response to #1, state 
whether defendants have any knowledge of any such police officer claiming that hdshe suffered 
from any alcoholism, fiom any alcohol related disease or whether any such police officer claimed 
that the actions resulting in the arrest were related to alcohol consumption.” 
Pursuant to an order of this court dated May 2,2000, defendants were directed to 
respond to Interrogatory No. 1. On consent, the May 2,2000 order also provided: ‘With respect 
to Plaintiff’s Interrogatory No. 2, defendants agree that if information regarding the alcoholism of 
those individuals identified in Interrogatory No. 1 is available then information will be produced 
by June 15,2000.” At a compliance conference held on August 1,2000, defendants were 
granted an extension until August 30,2000 to respond to plainWs interrogatories. 
Subsequently, in response to the first interrogatory, the City provided documents with 
certain information, including names, redacted. However, by letter dated September 12,2000, 
the City advised plaintiff that, in response to the second interrogatory, it had “conducted a search 
of the Department Advocate’s files of thirty individuals who were deemed to be similarly situated 
to the plaintif€ *** and it was discovered that no information regarding alcohol counseling or 
alcoholism was available.” In the same letter, the City also stated that any further information 
regarding the alcoholism or alcohol counseling of these individuals would not be produced 
“[b]ecause it is the defendants’ position production of any information relating to the alcoholism 
and alcohol counseling received by those individuals identified in defendants’ response to 
plaintiffs interrogatory no. 1 is prohibited” by 42 USC 290dd-2. 
At another compliance conference held on October 17,2000, defendants raised their 
objection to plaintiff’s second interrogatory based on 42 USC 29Odd-2. By order of the court [* 3 ]
Page 3 
dated October 17,2000, defendants were granted leave to make the instant motion. 
At the outset, the court rejects plaintiff‘s contention that defendants are estopped from 
seeking to vacate the discovery order in view of their prior agreement to produce the requested 
information. An agreement may be vacated or modified upon a showing of good cause. (see, 
Matter of Frutiger, 29 NY2d 143 [ 197 11.) Here, although defendants previously consented to 
produce the information requested by Interrogatory No. 2, the existence of a federal statute 
addressing the privacy interests of persons receiving treatment or counseling for alcoholism is a 
sdcient basis, as set forth below, for modification of the court’s prior order. 
Section 290dd-2(a) provides: ‘Records of the identity, diagnosis, prognosis or treatment 
of any patient which are maintained in connection with the performance of any program or 
activity relating to substance abuse education, prevention, training, treatment, rehabilitation, or 
research, which is conducted, regulated or directly or indirectly assisted by any department or 
agency of the United States shall * * * be confidential and be disclosed only for the purposes and 
under the circumstances expressly authorized“ by the statute and its implementing regulations. 
The statute applies to federally assisted programs, which include those “supported by 
funds provided by any department or agency of the United States by being: * * * [clonducted by a 
State or local government unit which, through general or special revenue sharing or other forms 
of assistance, receives Federal funds which could be (but are not necessarily) spent for the alcohol 
or drug abuse program.” (42 CFR 2.12[b][3][ii].) While there is nothing in this record that 
demonstrates that federal funds have been allocated to defendants’ program, federal regulations 
provide that “ ‘whenever a State or local government is assisted by the Federal government by 
way of revenue sharing or other unrestricted grants, all of the programs and activities of the State 
or local government are thereby indirectly assisted, and thus meet that aspect of the statutory 
criteria for coverage’.” (k, [* 4 ]
Page 4 
84 Misc2d 138, 143 [Sup Ct, Suffolk County 1975][cithg federal regulations]. See, Smalls v. 
Fallon, 1995 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 61 [SDNY 1995][NYPD alcohol treatment program covered by 
statute]; Moore v. City of New York, 2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2191 [SDNY 2001][records 
concerning alcohol treatment programs sponsored by NYPD subject to protections of statute].) 
In any event, it does not appear that plaintiff disputes the applicability of the federal statute to 
defendants’ alcohol counseling program. 
Clearly, whether viewed in light of 42 USC 290dd-2 or state privacy laws (e.g., Civil 
Rights Law 50-a), information pertaining to an individual‘s treatment in an alcohol or other 
substance abuse program is extremely sensitive material subject to protection from disclosure. 
Such protection “furthers the objectives of the Federal statute addressing drug and alcohol abuse 
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation by not chilling the willingness or discouraging the 
readiness of individuals” to seek treatment. (Matter of the Commr. of Social Sews. v. David 
.¶ R S 55 NY2d 588,593 [1982].) 
Nonetheless, disclosure of alcohol treatment records may be permitted in certain limited 
circumstances. Pursuant to 42 USC 29Odd-2, disclosure’ of confidential information will be 
allowed “[ilf authorized by an appropriate order of a court of competent jurisdiction granted after 
application showing good cause therefor * * *. In assessing good cause the court shall weigh the 
public interest and the need for disclosure against the injury to the patient, to the physician-patient 
relationship, and to the treatment services.” (42 USC 29’Odd-2[b] [2] [C].) Further, regulations 
implementing Section 29Odd-2 provide that confidential communications between a patient and an 
alcohol treatment facility will be permitted only where “disclosure is necessary to protect against 
‘“Disclosure” as &lined in the implementing regulations “means a communication of patient 
identifying information, the affirmative verification of another person’s communication of patient 
identifying information, or the communication of any information from the record of a patient who has been 
identified” (42 CFR 2.1 1 .) [* 5 ]
Page 5 
an existing threat to life or of serious bodily injury;” “disclosure is necessary in connection with 
investigation or prosecution of an extremely serious crime;” or “disclosure is in connection with 
litigation * * * in which the patient offers testimony or other evidence pertaining to the content of 
the confidential communications.” (42 CFR 2.63.) 
Contrary to plainWs contention that he is not seeking “records” encompassed by the 
statute, to the extent that plaintiff is seeking “information, whether recorded or not, relating to a 
patient received or acquired by a federally assisted alcohol or drug program,” such information is 
protected. (42 CFR 2.11.) Nor has plaintif€ demonstrated sufficient grounds to require disclosure 
of any such confidential information, notwithstanding its relevance to his claim of employment 
discrimination based on alcoholism. (see, Smalls v. Fallon, sur>ra; Carr v. Allegheny Health, 
Educ. and Research Found., 933 F Supp 485 [WD Pa 19961.) 
However, the statute does not prohibit disclosure of information that is not “patient 
identifying information.” (see, 42 CFR 2.11.) Here, plaintiff asserts that he is not seeking the 
identity of any individual police officers receiving counseling or treatment. Thus, plaintiff is 
entitled to information responding to Interrogatory No. 2 to the extent that “patient identlfyrng 
information “ is excluded. Defendants therefore must answer whether they have knowledge 
pertaining to the alcoholism or alcohol-related disease or claims “that the actions resulting in the 
arrest were related to alcohol consumption” of the police officers identified in Interrogatory No. 1, 
including how many cases identified in response to Interrogatory No. 1 are also responsive to 
Interrogatory No. 2. Further, if information responsive to Interrogatory No. 2 can be matched 
with the information provided in response to Interrogatory No. 1 without exposing the identity of 
the individual police officers, defendants are also directed to provide such information. It appears 
unclear whether, having provided tax identification numbers in response to plaintiffs 
Interrogatory No. 1, defendants can provide such matching information without identlfyrng [* 6 ]
Page 6 
individuals. To the extent that it is possible, by means of redaction of identlfylng factors or 
otherwise, information matching up with the responses to Interrogatory No. 1 must be provided. 
Accordingly, defendants’ motion is granted to the extent that defendants are directed to 
respond to plaintiffs Interrogatory No. 2 in accordance with the above. 
This constitutes the decision and order of the court. 
Dated: New York, New York 
June 22,2001 
MAR&$$DMAN, J.S.C. [* 7 ]
