Genrich v Ralph Guary, III
2001 NY Slip Op 30064(U)
May 31, 2001
Supreme Court, Monroe County
Docket Number: 97/5231
Judge: Raymond E. Cornelius
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.STATE OF NEW YORK 
SUPREME COURT COUNTY OF MONROE 
JONATHAN GENRICH, 
Plaintiff 
-vs- Index#97/523 1 
RALPH GUARY, III, 
THE TOWN OF IRONDEQUOIT and 
TRAILCRAFT MANUFACTURING LIMITED, 
Defendants. 
APPEARANCES: 
ANGEL0 G. FARACI, ESQ., OF COUNSEL 
JOHN FALK, ESQ., OF COUNSEL 
FARACI & LANGE LLP 
ATTORNEYS FOR THE PLAINTIFF 
FRANK G. MONTEMALO, ESQ., OF COUNSEL 
CULLEY, MARKS, TANENBAUM & PEZZULO LLP 
ATTORNEYS FOR DEFENDANT, TOWN OF IRONDEQUOIT 
DECISION AND ORDER 
RAYMOND E. CORNELIUS, J. 
The Plaintiff, Jonathan Genrich, commenced this action for personal injuries, 
which were allegedly sustained as the result of an amusement ride on July 4, 1996. 
This was part of an Independence Day celebration, which had been sponsored by the 
Defendant, the Town of Irondequoit, for approximately twenty-five years. Except for 
a race and the traditional parade, other activities, including entertainment, food, 
1 [* 1]
games and fireworks, occurred on the Town Hall grounds. 
In 1996, the Town entered into a contract with the Defendant, Ralph Guary 111, 
a vendor who operated amusement rides, to provide for, among other services, a ride 
called the "Spaceball". This particular activity was designed to simulate the 
experience of weightlessness associated with travel in outer space. The rider was 
strapped into a seat, and by means of an operator manually spinning a wheel, would 
experience being rolled over and turned around. There was no governor or other 
mechanical limits controlling the speed, and according to pre-trial deposition 
testimony, the ride was capable of going forty miles per hour, or possibly fifty to sixty 
miles per hour if two people operated the wheel. The Defendant, Trailcraft 
Manufacturing Limited, a Canadian corporation, was the manufacturer of this device. 
The evidence, in this case, indicates that the Plaintiff was spun at a very high rate of 
speed, and as a result, sustained a brain stem injury. 
The written contract between the Town and h4i. Guary is entitled "1996 July 
4th Vendor Policy and Agreement." In relevant part, the contract provided that 
vendors would be "...Subject to frequent inspections by the Event Committee." In 
this connection, paragraph 22 of the agreement reads as follows: 
The Department of Parks and Recreation Staff may check any vendor 
during the time of the event. It is expected that the vendor will comply 
with any reasonable request made by a member of the Staff. 
Further, the contract provided that the Department of Parks and Recreation would 
provide overnight security on July 3. The price charged for services was required to 
be submitted and approved by the event chairman, or a designee, who had the 
authority to change prices to a reasonable or competitive amount. A vendor was not 
permitted to change prices during the event, without prior approval of the chairman. 
This form contract also provided for the Town to receive a percentage of the gross 
L [* 2]
sales, and pursuant to a notation, which appears to have been made on July 1, 1996, 
Mr. Guary agreed to remit 40% of his ticket sales to the Town of Irondequoit. It 
should also be mentioned that, because this was a Town festival, the vendor was not 
required to obtain a license or permit in order to operate the amusement ride. 
During his deposition, Mr. Guary, who had obtained a certificate of ownership 
as a licensed operator of the "Spaceball" ride, acknowledged that the machine was 
capable of causing injury and an awareness that the ride should not be operated at an 
extremely fast speed. On the day of the Plaintiffs injury, Mr. Guary was not on the 
premises, and it would appear that a person by the name of Jacob Gray, an employee 
who had received some training concerning the ride, was primarily responsible for its 
operation. However, at the time of the Plaintiff's injury, the ride was actually being 
operated by Ralph Guary IVY the 15 year old son of the Defendant, Ralph Guary 111. 
According to Mr. Gray's testimony, Ralph Guary IV operated the "Spaceball" too 
fast, and in fact, was responding to the crowd yelling, "faster, faster." When Mr. 
Gray spoke to Ralph Guary IVY the latter admitted "that I just spun that kid really 
fast." 
Pursuant to the "1996 Indemnification Agreement," which was signed by both 
Ralph Guary I11 and Michael M. Spang, Director of the Town of Irondequoit Parks 
and Recreation Department, liability insurance was made a condition precedent to the 
performance of any service. This agreement provided that the policy of insurance 
would be obtained from a carrier acceptable to the Town insurance agent and subject 
to an amount, terms and conditions as determined by the Town insurance agent and 
Town attorney. In fact, Mr. Guary did not obtain a liability insurance policy covering 
the "Spaceball" ride, and as a practical matter, it is doubtful that he has sufficient 
assets to satisfy any money judgment. The president of the Defendant, Trailcraft 
Manufacturing Limited, was served with process in this case. However, he 
3 [* 3]
subsequently died, and Trailcraft Manufacturing Limited is probably a defunct 
corporation. Although the Defendant, Town of Irondequoit, could certainly satisfy 
any judgment in this case, a motion has now been made, on behalf of this Defendant, 
for summary judgment. 
Based upon the aforementioned recitation of facts, it is apparent that the Town 
of Irondequoit was both a promoter of the July 4* celebration, as well as owner of the 
premises where Plaintiff sustained his injuries. However, the Court would agree with 
counsel for the Plaintiff that this is not a premises liability case. Liability is usually 
imposed upon an owner of property because of some defective condition, which was 
known or should have been known to such owner, or alternatively, was created by 
such individual. In addition, landowners have been held to "...have a duty to act in a 
reasonable manner to prevent harm to those on their property...", such as 
responsibility for injuries caused by an intoxicated guest. D'Amico v. Christie, 71 
NY2d 76, 85(1987), citing Basso v. Miller, 40 NY2d 233, 241(1976). The decision 
in DiGiulio v. City of Buffalo, 237 AD2d 938(4th Dept. 1997) rearg andor Zv to 
appeal denied 1997 WL 652048, which is cited by counsel for the Town of 
Irondequoit, appears to have been based, in part, upon premises liability law, and 
specifically, the failure to establish actual or constructive notice of any alleged defect. 
In another decision, which is somewhat more comparable to the facts in the pending 
case, a municipal corporation was held to owe a duty of reasonable and ordinary care 
against foreseeable dangers to those who accepted an invitation to enter and use 
recreational areas owned by the municipality. Caldwell v. Village of Island Park, 304 
NY 268(1952). The Plaintiff, in this case, had been injured as the result of 
firecrackers being discharged by other users of the recreational area. 
In the pending case, the Plaintiff was not injured as the result of some defect in 
the property owned by the Town, nor by the actions of third parties, whose only 
4 [* 4]
relationship with the Town was use of its property. The Town of Irondequoit hired 
Mr. Guary to provide the "Spaceball" ride, and as such, he performed these services 
as an independent contractor. Although the Town owned the property, upon which 
the injury occurred, it also served as promoter of the July 4* event, and in effect, 
became a general contractor. As a general rule, a general contractor is not legally 
responsible for the negligent acts of an independent contractor, as opposed, for 
example, to an employee or agent. This is based upon the rationale that an individual, 
who employs an independent contractor, has no right to control the manner in which 
the work is to be performed by the latter. Kleeman v. Rheingold, 81 NY2d 
270(1993). However, as the Court of Appeals acknowledged, there are at least three 
exceptions to this rule - 1) negligence of the employer in selecting, instructing or 
supervising the contractor, 2) employment for work %herently" dangerous, and 3) 
instances in which the employer is under a specific, non delegable duty. 
Liability, under a common law cause of action for negligence, depends upon 
the existence of a duty of care owed by a defendant to the claimant, and a breach of 
that duty, which results in damages. The question of whether or not a certain 
relationship gives rise to a duty of care is a question of law to be decided, in the first 
instance, by the Court. Purdy v. Public Administrator of County of Westchester, 72 
NY2d 1 (1988) rearg denied 72 NY2d 953(1988), Eiseman v. State of New York, 70 
NY2d 175(1987), Pulka v. Edelman, 40 NY2d 781(1976) rearg denied 41 NY2d 
901(1977). Once the nature of the duty of care is determined by the Court, as a 
matter of law, a question of fact may then arise as to whether or not the defendant 
owed a duty to a particular plaintiff. Kimmell v. Schaefer, 89 NY2d 257(1996). 
Each of the exceptions, exempting a general contractor from liability for the negligent 
acts of an independent contractor, necessarily involves a determination as to whether 
or not a duty of care arose in a particular situation. In regard to the first of the 
5 [* 5]
aforementioned exceptions to the general rule, there is insufficient evidence, in this 
Court’s opinion, to justify a finding that the Town was negligent in selecting andor 
instructing Mr. Guary. The issue, therefore, becomes whether or not the Town was 
negligent in supervising this independent vendor, and this, in turn, may depend upon 
the amount of control they exercised over him. 
Frequently, the issue of responsibility for an independent contractor’s 
negligence arises in the context of construction accidents. In order to establish a duty 
of care in such situations, a plaintiff must establish that the owner or general 
contractor exercised supervision and control over the work performed, or 
alternatively, had actual or constructive notice of an unsafe or dangerous condition, 
which caused the accident. Comes v. New York State Electric & Gas Corp., 82 NY2d 
876(1993), Custer v. Cortland Housing - Authority, 266 AD2d 619(3rd Dept. 1999) Zv 
to appeal denied 94 NY2d 761(2000), Sprague v. Peckham Materials Corn., 240 
AD2d 392(2nd Dept. 1997). General supervisory authority provided in a contract 
between an owner and contractor, has been held to be insufficient to establish the 
requisite supervision and control, and absent other proof, summary judgment should 
be granted to the defendant. Enderlin v. Hebert 1ndus.Insulation. Inc., 224 AD2d 
1020(4th Dept. 1996. Indeed, in DiGiulio v. Citv of Buffalo, supra, which involved 
causes of action for both common law negligence and violation of Labor Law, $200, 
the Court reversed denial of the summary judgment motion, in part, because plaintiffs 
had failed to controvert proof that the defendant did not supervise or control the 
manner or method of assembling the booth. Conversely, where there is evidence, for 
example, that a defendant had the ability to coordinate the work activity of 
subcontractors, the capacity to exclude work in a particular area, or the authority to 
direct a subcontractor not to engage in a particular work activity, there would be a 
triable issue of fact as to whether a defendant had the requisite control over the 
6 [* 6]
methods of the subcontractors and other employees to prevent the creation of an 
unsafe condition. See Rizzuto v. L.A Wenger Contracting Co.,Inc., 91 NY2nd 
343(1998). Likewise, summary judgment should be denied where, for example, an 
owner or general contractor maintained a safety manager on the job site, exercised 
direct control over a subcontractor, and was responsible for the construction schedule. 
See Freitas v. New York City Transit Authority, 249 AD2d 184(lst Dept. 1998). 
In the Court's opinion, the facts in the pending case, some of which have been 
discussed above, present, at the very least, a question of fact whether or not the Town 
of Irondequoit exercised sufficient control over Mr. Guary's activities to have 
permitted representatives to prevent the unsafe operation of the "Spaceball," and 
thereby, justify imposition of a duty of care owed to the Plaintiff. In this regard, 
provisions contained in the "1996 July 4" - Vendor Policy and Agreement," are 
particularly significant, as well as the fact that monitors from the Department of Parks 
and Recreation supervised the grounds during the July 4" celebration. If there was 
sufficient control and supervision to impose a duty of care, the Town would be 
vicariously liable for any negligence of their independent contractor. 
Another exception, enumerated by the Court of Appeals, which, in reality, may 
not be an exception at all, relates to instances in which the employer is under a 
specific non delegable duty. However, as the Court made clear in Kleeman v. 
Rheinaold, - supra, "...the class of duties considered 'nondelegable' is not limited to 
statutorily imposed duties," and 'I.. .whether a particular duty is properly categorized 
as 'nondelegable' necessarily entails a sui generis inquiry, since the conclusion 
ultimately rests on policy considerations." p.275. Thus, in that case, the Court of 
Appeals held that an attorney had a non delegable duty to a client to exercise due care 
in the service of process, which could not be avoided by making arrangements with 
an independent process server to effect proper service. In another situation, involving 
7 [* 7]
the discharge of fireworks, a municipality, acting as the promoter of an Independence 
Day celebration, has been held to owe a non delegable duty to safeguard the public, 
which could not be avoided by arranging with an independent contractor to discharge 
the fireworks. See Rill V. Chiarella, 50 Misc. 2d 105(1966) mod 30 AD2d 882(2nd 
Dept. 1968) afd 25 NY2d 702(1969). 
Based upon the uncontested facts in this case, including the contractual 
provisions with the independent contractor, the fact that representatives of the Town 
did monitor the grounds, and the financial benefit to the Town from sales of tickets 
for the ride, the Court has concluded that a non delegable duty of care to the public 
should be imposed upon the Town, in this case. It should be emphasized that the 4* 
of July celebration was a long-standing annual event in the Town of Irondequoit, with 
the Town acting as promoter. The hiring of Mr. Guary, as an independent contractor 
to operate the amusement ride, as part of this event, was for a relatively brief period 
of time. When combined with the public expectations in connection therewith, policy 
considerations would seem to dictate the imposition of a duty of due care directly 
upon the municipality. Whether or not the Town discharged their duty of care, 
becomes of question of fact for the jury. 
Counsel for the Defendant, Town of Irondequoit, contends that summary 
judgment should be granted because Plaintiffs participation in the "Spaceball" ride 
constituted a primary assumption of the risk. However, the Court is unable to agree 
that there was anything inherently dangerous, or any apparent danger in participating 
in this amusement ride. This was not a situation, for example, where a plaintiff 
accepts a ride on a go-cart, at an amusement park, and knows that the go-cart would 
bump into other objects and cause injury as a result of the impact. Cf. Loewenthal v. 
Catskill Funland, Inc., 237 AD2d 262(2nd Dept. 1997). In the pending case, injury 
occurred as a result of the apparent negligent operation of the amusement ride, by the 
8 [* 8]
operator, and the possible defect arising from the lack of any mechanical control, 
which was not obvious to anyone accepting a ride. 
Finally, counsel for the Plaintiff has made a motion to amend the Complaint to 
delete Trailcraft Manufacturing Limited, as a party Defendant. However, as 
aforementioned, the president of this corporation had been served with process in this 
case. Although defunct and without assets, any comparative negligence on the part of 
this corporation in the manufacture of the "Spaceball" may impact the proportionate 
share of responsibility of the Town of Irondequoit. See CPLR 61601. This is true 
notwithstanding the fact that the Court has found that the Town owed a non delegable 
duty to the Plaintiff. See Ranaolan v. County of Nassau, 96 NY2d 42(2001). Under 
CPLR $160 1 , if any liability of the Town were found to be fifty percent or less of the 
total fault, responsibility for payment of non-economic damages would be limited to 
their equitable share. However, the culpable conduct of a non party would not be 
considered in determining any equitable share unless the claimant has established the 
inability to obtain jurisdiction over such non party, notwithstanding the exercise of 
due diligence. Although amendments to pleadings should be liberally permitted, the 
deletion of Trailcraft Manufacturing Limited, as a party in this case, may well be 
prejudicial to the Town of Irondequoit. 
Based upon the foregoing reasons, it is hereby 
ORDERED, that Defendant's motion for summary judgment is denied, and it is 
hrther 
ORDERED, that PlaintifYs motion to amend the Complaint is denied. 
Dated: 3 1 May 2001 
Hon. Raymond E. Cornelius, JSC 
9 [* 9]
