Vinder v Fareri
2001 NY Slip Op 30051(U)
March 24, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number:
Judge: Louise Gruner Gans
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.0 I- 
9 w K K w 
LL w a 
> 
3 
I- o 
W n 
v) 
W 
v) 
LLI 
v) 
o 
A 
2 
LL 
- 
a SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
/ HON- 
 LOWE 
 GRUNER GANS 
PRESENT: Hon. PART 
Justice r / 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
-v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
01 
c 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion tolfor 
PAPERS NUMBERED 
Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits 
Cross -Motion: 0 Yes 
 WNo 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
AOTION DETERMINED PURSUANT T‘ 
WNEXED DECISION AND ORDEF” 
\ J. S. C. Dated: 
Check one: 
 YLINAL DISPOSITION 
HON. LOUISE GRUNER GANS [* 1 ]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 61 
RON J. VINDER and MARCY L. VINDER, X 
Plaintiff, 
-against - Index No. 104900/2001 
MICHAEL FARERI, 
 HOULIHAN/LAWRENCE IN., 
BARBARA GREER, and DAVIS& SINGER, P.C., 
Defendants. 
X 
LOUISE GRUNER GANS, J. 
In motion sequence 01, Plaintiffs Ron and Marcy Vinder move (1) to toll any 
declaration of default under the sales contract and to enjoin Defendant Davis & Singer 
from releasing the contract down payment; (2) to toll enforcement of the $1,000 a day 
penalty provision of the sales contract if the closing does not occur on June 1, 2001 ; (3) 
pursuant to CPLR 
 3126(1) for an order that the issues for which Fareri did not produce 
information shall be determined in Plaintiffs’ favor; (4) pursuant to CPLR 
 3126(2) 
barring Fareri from supporting his claims or offering into evidence documents which 
were requested by Plaintiffs but not produced by Fareri; (5) pursuant to CPLR 
 3126(3) 
striking Fareri’s pleadings or dismissing Fareri’s counterclaim because of his failure to 
produce requested documents; and (6) pursuant to CPLR 3124 compelling Fareri to 
comply with the amended notice of deposition. In motion sequence 02, Defendant 
Michael Fareri moves pursuant to CPLR 321 1 to dismiss the action and pursuant to 
CPLR 321 2 for summary judgment on his counterclaim or for an order transferring the 
action to Westchester County. 
Mr. Fareri put real property located at 14 Sunrise Drive, Armonk, New York on 
1 [* 2 ]
the market in 1999, retaining Defendant Houlihan Lawrence (“H/LJJ) as the broker. Judy 
Tarter was the first H/L broker to show Plaintiffs the property. Defendant Barbara 
Greer was the H/L listing broker. On November 18, 2000, Plaintiffs executed a contract 
to purchase for 
$2;550,000. They tendered a down payment of $255,000. 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants misrepresented the taxes. As of September 
2000, the tax liability was listed by the broker on its website at $25,071. However, on 
December 18, 2000 the tax liability was listed on the website as $31,813. Plaintiffs 
claim to have inquired of Defendants about taxes on several occasions. Mr. Fareri 
does not dispute that he said he paid taxes around $25,000. His records submitted 
- 
with the motion show that he paid $28,442.28 for the year 2000. In an affidavit dated 
June 18, 2001, Anna Maria Marrone, the assessor for the Town of North Castle states 
that she recalculated the square footage of the home in February 2001 and arrived at a 
new assessment. She states that the recalculation was necessary due to an error by 
her office in originally calculating the square footage. Plaintiffs claim that as a result of 
the reassessment, the taxes for 2001 are $36,555. 
Plaintiffs initiated this action in March 2001. The complaint consists of seven 
causes of action: (1) against Fareri for fraud in the inducement; (2) against Fareri for 
recission based on unilateral mistake and fraud; (3) against Fareri for recission for 
mutual mistake of fact; (4) against H/L and Greer for negligence; (5) against H/L and 
Greer for breach of fiduciary duty; (6) for fraud by H/L and Greer; and (7) for a 
preliminary injunction enjoining Davis & Singer from releasing the down payment and 
directing it to return the down payment. Plaintiffs seek the following relief: (1 ) 
2 [* 3 ]
rescission; (2) return of the down payment plus interest; (3) on order directing Davis & 
Singer to return the down payment. Fareri’s answer dated March 27, 2001 includes a 
counterclaim for breach of contract entitling him to keep the down payment. 
Mr. Fareri’s motion to change venue is denied. He does not allege that venue in 
New York County is improper. Rather, he moves to change venue based on the 
convenience of material witnesses. However, he fails to satisfy the requirements of 
CPLR 51 0 by failing to list the names addresses and occupations of witness, the facts 
to which the witnesses will testify, the witnesses willingness to testify and that they will 
in fact be inconvenienced. O‘Brien v Vassar Bros. Hosp., 207 AD2d 169 (2d Dept 
1995). 
- 
Mr. Fareri seeks to dismiss the action against him based on paragraph 1 of the 
first rider which provides: 
It is understood and expressly agreed that neither Seller nor any person 
purporting to act for Seller has made or no makes any representations or 
warranties covering the physical condition of, zoning of, or condition of 
title to the premises or concerning any other matter or thing affecting the 
premises except as expressly provided herein, and Seller expressly 
disclaims any such representations or warranties, except as expressly set 
forth herein. Purchaser hereby expressly acknowledges that no such 
representations or warranties have been made, and that Purchaser is not 
relying on any of same .... 
It is understood and agreed that all understandings and agreements 
heretofore had between the parties are hereby merged in this agreement, 
which alone fully and completely expresses their agreement and that 
same is entered into after full investigation, neither party is relying upon 
any statement or repesentation made by the other which is not embodied 
in this contract. 
He argues that this action is precluded by the merger clause. “[A] general merger 
3 [* 4 ]
clause is ineffective to exclude parol evidence of fraud in the inducement.” Danann 
Realty Corp v Harris, 5 NY2d 317, 320 (1958). Although the contract, in paragraph 18,’ 
contemplates that taxes change from year to year ,this is not sufficient to constitute a 
specific disclaimer of reliance on any oral representation about taxes. See 
 DiFilippo v 
Hidden Ponds Associates, 146 AD2d 737 (2d Dept 1989). 
However, Plaintiffs’ failure to investigate this issue for themselves is fatal to this 
action. Id. In his June 12, 2001 affidavit, Mr. Vinder states that sometime after he paid 
the down payment, the broker Judy Tarter checked the public records and discovered 
that the square footage listed with the town was incorrect. If the amount of local taxes 
was as important to them as Mr. Vinder states, then the Vinders could have, and should 
have, confirmed the assessment for themselves. Had they done so, they would have 
discovered, just as Tarter had, that the square footage used by the tax assewor was 
smaller than the actual square footage of the house. See, Glazer v 
LoPreste, 278 
A.D.2d 198 (2d Dept 2000). Indeed, the reassessment was as a result of Tarter’s 
investigation. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ failure to close is a breach of contract. Under the 
contract, Mr. Fareri is entitled to keep the down payment. 
- 
‘It provides: 
Apportionment and Other Adjustments; Water Meter and Installment 
Assessments. (a) To the extent applicable, the following shall be 
apportioned as of midnight of the day before the day of closing: (1) taxes, 
water charges and sewer rents, on the basis of the fiscal period for which 
assessed. (b) if Closing shall occur before a new tax rate is fixed, the 
apportionment of taxes shall be upon the basis of the tax rate for the 
immediately preceding fiscal period applied to the latest assessed 
valuation. 
4 [* 5 ]
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED, Mr. Fareri’s motion to dismiss the complaint and for summary 
judgment on his counterclaim is granted; and it is further 
ORDERED, that laintiffs’ motion is denied as moot. 
Dated: 
 {pf(o( ENTER: 
J.s.uy 
HON. LOUISE GRUN 
 GANS 
5 [* 6 ]
