Sonnenschine v Giacomo
2001 NY Slip Op 30005(U)
April 9, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 6_30060/1329
Judge: Sheila Abdus-Salaam
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PRESENT: Hon. SHEILA ABDUS-SALAAM PART 13 
Justice 
Samuel Sonnenschine, Aaron Brand, 
Chamonix Associates, Red Bluff 
Realty Corp., Chamonix Investors, Ltd., Sandpiper 
Associates, Sandpiper Investors, Ltd., and 
Pasadena Realty Corp. 
-V- 
Paul Giacomo and Monroe Partners 
International PC. INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. c/i, 1 
MOTION CAL. NO. f? 7 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
Papers Numbered 
Notice of MotionlOrder to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross-Motion: kYes 0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion by defendant Giacomo for 
an order pursuant to CPLR ยง 1321 1 (a) (l),and (7) dismissing the complaint is 
granted and plaintiffs' cross-motion for leave to serve an amended complaint is 
denied. 
In this legal malpractice action, plaintiffs have failed to adequately allege that 
defendant's negligence was a proximate cause of actual damages, that plaintiffs 
would have succeeded in their defense of the underlying action but for their 
attorney's negligence (Hutt v. Kanterman & Taub, - AD2d , 720 NYS2d 781; 
Weiner v. Hershman & Leicher, P.C., 248 AD2d 193). Defendant has demonstrated 
here, based upon documentary evidence, that plaintiffs did not have a meritorious 
1 [* 1 ]
defense to the underlying action (Sandcham Realtv CorD. v. Sonnenschine. et al) 
and that therefore, plaintiffs should not be permitted to amend their complaint. 
The Sandcham action was brought to recover $425,000 owed to Sandcham 
for the purchase by Aaron Brand (one of the plaintiffs here) of Notes representing 
indebtedness of Sandpiper Associates and Chamonix Associates to Sandcham 
Realty. By letter agreements dated September 17, 1990, plaintiffs agreed to pay 
Sandcham a down payment of $175,000 (this amount was paid) and to pay the 
balance of $425,000 from amounts collected from the Satnick Group, and the 
remaining limited partners. The agreement provides that the balance of the 
purchase price for the notes shall be derived from capital calls made on the 
remaining limited partners of Chamonix Associates and Sandpiper Associates. 
Defendant has shown here that the balance due was never paid and further, 
that tax returns for the years 1991 through 1995 show that capital contributions 
totaling $1,969,022 were made to Sandpiper Associates and Chamonix 
Associates. Thus, argues movant, even if the answer of Sonnenschine, et al. in the 
underlying action had not been stricken based upon failure to comply with 
discovery orders, those defendants would not have prevailed because they had no 
meritorious defense to Sandcham's action on the notes and the September 
agreements. 
Plaintiffs have taken the position here that they would have succeeded in the 
underlying action. Their main argument is that they did not breach the September 
agreements because no capital contributions were ever made to Sandpiper and 
Chamonix from which Sandcham could have been paid. As for the tax returns that 
reflect such contributions, Mr. Sonnenschine, a certified public accountant, claims 
that the capital contributions shown on the tax returns reflect "bookkeeping errors" 
by the two partnerships which he discovered in 1996 or 1997, and that he caused 
these capital contributions to be reclassified as loans on the books of the 
partnerships. However, Mr. Sonnenschine does not annex any copies of 
amendments to those tax returns indicating that amended returns were filed with 
the IRS correcting these bookkeeping errors. Plaintiffs' argument that five years of 
tax returns reflected incorrect information appears to be merely a post litem motam 
allegation, advanced only after Sandcham obtained a judgment against these 
2 [* 2 ]
parties, and such an allegation is insufficient to raise any genuine issue as to 
whether plaintiffs can demonstrate proximate cause in this malpractice action. 
Additionally, the other defenses to the underlying action asserted by plaintiffs here 
are not supported by the record. 
Finally, plaintiffs' breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation and 
negligent misrepresentation claims are redundant of the legal malpractice claims 
and must be dismissed (Sane Realty Corp. v. Proskauer Rose, LLP, 251 AD2d 35). 
Similarly, the breach of fiduciary claim is dismissed since it is based on the same 
facts as the legal malpractice claim and does "not allege distinct damages (citations 
omitted)."(Mecca v. Shanq, 258 AD2d 569, 560, leave to ameal dismissed 95 
NY2d 791). 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the Clerk enter judgment dismissing the complaint. 
Dated dh lo/ 
Check one: FINAL DISPOSITION ENTER: ,&-,A 
J. s. c. 
0 NON-FINAL DISPOSITION 
3 [* 3 ]
