Cardena v Anjowar Realty Corp.
2001 NY Slip Op 30082(U)
September 25, 2001
Supreme Court, Bronx County
Docket Number: 17605/92
Judge: Paul A. Victor
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF BRONX 
Juan Cardena and Maria De; Carmen Goyri, 
Plaintiff, 
-against- 
Anjowar Realty Corp Defendant. Index No. 17605192 
Present: 
Hon. Paul A. Victor 
Recitation, as required by CPLR 2219(a), of the papers considered in the review of motion(s) andor 
cross-motion(s), as indicated below: 
Notice of Motion and Affidavits Annexed 1 and 2 
X-motions 3 and 4,5 and 6 
Opposition 7 and 8 
Reply 9 and 10 Pd 
Upon the foregoing papers, the foregoing motion and cross-motions, (IS indicated, are consolidated for 
disposition and decided as follows: 
Relief Sought 
Defendant moves, inter alia, to set aside the verdict of the jury, and for a new trial pursuant 
to CPLR 4404. ‘Plaintiff cross-moves to set down for trial the cause of action for property damage. 
Defendant “cross-moves” for summary judgment with respect to the issue of property damage. 
Facts and Procedural History 
Plaintiff Juan Cardena, the superintendent of a building owned by the defendant and located 
in Bronx County, and plaintiff Maria Del Carmen Go*, his wife, were savagely attacked at 
approximately 1 1 :00 P.M. on October 9,1991, as they entered the apartment building in which they 
resided at 120 Haven Avenue in Bronx County. Plaintiff Juan Cardena was the superintendent of 
the building, and was provided with an apartment as a benefit of his employment. The plaintiff 
Defendant has not provided the court with a trial transcript. 
1 [* 1]
testified that he worked on a 7:OO A.M. To 2:OO P.M. shift in the subject building as a 
superintendent six days a week, and was also empoloyed on a 3:OO P.M. tp 11:OO P.M. shift as a 
doorman in another building. as a “full-time” doorman at another building, and thus worked only 
part-time at the subject premises. On the evening of the assault, the plaintiff and his wife left 
their residence at approximately 9:30 P.M., and had dinner at a nearby restaurant. They returned to 
the building, at which time the plaintiff checked the garbage, after which he joined his wife. The 
plaintiffs were assaulted in the common area of the premises. During the attack in the plaintiffs’ 
apartment, a phone call from a tenant was received seeking building maintenance. 
The plaintiffs recovered a judgment against the defendant owners of the premises after jury 
trial. Defendant now argues, first, that the defendants did not have notice of prior criminal activity 
at the premises so as to warrant a charge on liability; secondly, that the claim of plaintiff Juan 
s Cardena is barred by Section 1 1 of the Workers Compensation Law; thirdly, that the Court’s charge 
on proximate cause was confusing, misleading and inconsistent, in that it incorporated the terms 
“substantial contributing cause,” “legal or proximate cause,’’ “substantial contributing factor,” 
“substantial factor,” and “cause”; fourth, that the court erred in refking to submit the issue of 
apportionment to the jury under Article 16 of the CPLR; and fifth, that the court erroneously 
permitted evidence of permanent injuries. 
Plaintiffs cross-move for a trial on their claim for property damage pursuant to RPAPL 853, 
whxh was severed prior to the trial of the personal injury action. 
Applicable Law and Discussion 
Motion to Set Aside the Verdict as a Matter of Law or as Contrary to the Weight of the 
Evidence 
2 [* 2]
C.P.L.R. 4404 (a) provides: 
After a trial of a cause of action or issue triable of right by a jury, upon the motion 
of any party or on its own initiative, the court may set aside a verdict or any judgment 
entered thereon and direct that judgment be entered in favor of a party entitled to 
judgment as a matter of law or it may order a new trial of a cause of action or 
separable issue where the verdict is contrary to the weight of the evidence, in the 
interest ofjustice or where the jury cannot agree after being kept together for as long 
as is deemed reasonable by the court. 
It is axiomatic that a jury verdict is entitled to the benefit of every fair and reasonable 
inference which can drawn from the evidence; and that it is the hction of the jury, not the court, 
to make credibility determinations. However, it has often been observed that “whether a jury verdict 
is against the weight of evidence is essentially a discretionary and factual determination which is to 
be distinguished from the question of whether a jury verdict, as a matter of law, is supported by 
sufficient evidence” (Nicastro v. Park, 113 A.D.2d 129, 132, 495 N.Y.S.2d 184). In addition 
“[a]lthough these two inquiries may appear somewhat related, they actually involve very different 
standards and may well led to disparate results” (Cohen v. Hallmark Cards, 45 N.Y.2d 493,498,410 
N.Y.S.2d 282.) 
To sustain a determination that a jury verdict is not supported by sufficient evidence as a 
matter of law, there must be “no valid line of reasoning and permissible inference which could 
possibly lead reasonable men to the conclusion reached by the jury on the basis of the evidence 
presented at trial” (Cohen v. Hallmark Cards, supra, at p. 449; Nicastro v. Park, supra, at p. 132.) 
As stated in Nicastro, supra, “[tlhe criteria for setting aside ajury verdict as against the weight of the 
evidence are necessarily less stringent ...[ and] whether a jury verdict should be set aside as contrary 
to the weight of the evidence does not involve a question of law, but rather requires a discretionarv 
balancing of many factors [citations omitted].” The rule has been stated as requiring that ajury 
3 [* 3]
verdict be set aside where “the jury could not have reached a verdict on any fair interpretation of the 
evidence” (Nicastro v. Park, supra at 134. See also, Burney v. Raba, 266 A.D.2d 174,697 N.Y.S.2d 
329; Maisonaves v. Friedman, 255 A.D.2d494,680N.YSS.2d 619; Delgadov. Board ofEd., 65 A.D. 
2d 547,408 N.Y.S. 2d 949, affd, 48 N.Y.2d 643,421 N.Y.S.2d 198.) 
It is fundamental that the Court’s discretionary power, pursuant to CPLR 4404, to set aside 
a jury verdict as against the weight of the evidence “must be exercised with caution since, in the 
absence of an indication that substantial justice has not been done, a litigant is entitled to the benefit 
of a favorable verdict.” (Brown v. Taylor, 221 A.D. 2d 208,209,633 N.Y.S. 2d 170. See also, Berry 
v. Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 256 A.D.2d 271,683 N.Y.S. 2d 30.) 
DISCUSSION 
Notice of Prior Criminal Activity 
This court notes that evidence was submitted on motion prior to trial that the fkont door locks 
to the premises were broken; that intruders had been seen in the building; and that the owners refused 
to remedy the situation. This evidence resulted in the denial of a motion for summary judgment by 
defendants, which was affirmed by the Appellate Division. (See Slip Opinion 1016, May 2,2000, 
which held “the motion court correctly determined that defendant failed to meet their burden and 
, sufficient evidence was presented to establish a factual question as to the foreseeability of criminal 
conduct in the building...”) Substantially, the same evidence as was adduced by the plaintiffs at trial. 
Based on the Appellate Division’s reasoning, there was sufficient evidence to permit the jury to 
make a determination in this regard. Nor was the jury’s conclusion contrary to the weight of the 
evidence, which established a prolonged failure to provide minimal security to the residents of the 
4 [* 4]
building. 
The Bar of Workers’ Compensation 
The court ruled as a matter of law during trial that the bar or Workers’ Compensation would 
not preclude the plaintiff Juan Cardena’s claim, and would, of course, not bar his wife’s calim in any 
event. The court adheres to that ruling. 
Defendant (relying upon, inter alia, Tor0 v. 1700 First Avenue Corporation, 16 A.D.2d 852, 
227N.Y.S.2d605, affd. 12N.Y.2d 1001,239N.Y.S.2d 130,189N.E.2d625)argues thattheassault 
on plaintiff Juan Cardena arose out of his employment, and thus recovery is barred by the exclusivity 
provision of the Workers Compensation Law. There was conflicting evidence at trial as to whether 
Mr. Cardena was a full time or part time employee. In any event, the credible trial testimony 
indicated that the plaintiff Juan Cardena and his wife had returned to the building after having had 
dinner at a local restaurant; that Mr. Cardena had checked on the garbage receptacles just before 
joining his wife in the outer vestibule; and that they were both in the common area of the building 
entering the inner vestibule when they were initially confronted and thereafter attacked. 
In Tor0 v. 1700 First Avenue Corporation (supra), the Court held that a resident 
superintendent of several apartment buildings, subject to call 24 hours of each day, was assaulted 
in the course of his employment by unknown assailant late in evening shortly after superintendent 
left apartment to fix boiler in another building, and that the assault was within coverage of 
Workmen’s Compensation Law. The Appellate Division opinion stated: 
That the assault arose in the course of emdovment is demonstrated by 
uncontradicted evidence supDlied in considerable measure bv the emdover 
itself. .. No personal motive is ascribed for the attack on deceased. It is gleanable that 
the board regarded robbery as its incentive. This is indicated by its statements 
5 [* 5]
1 
concerning the absence of deceased's wallet and the finding of his keys in an 
automobile owned by one of the tenants to which he had access for the purpose of 
changing its parking place periodically to comply with municipal regulations and 
subsequently found by the police to have been abandoned some distance fiom the 
scene of the crime. The duties of deceased called him in the darkness of late 
evenine to the basement of one of his emdoyer's apartment houses to attend a 
faultv boiler about which tenants had comdained. The site of his work was 
separated from the traveled way by an intervening courtyard and at least to some 
extent removed from public view. In this physically opportune setting the exposure 
to the danger of assault by a footpad clearly transcended the peril common to 
mankind in general. As an incident of the work deceased was thus broupht 
'within the zone of sDecial danper' and in contact with the risk which caused his 
death. In these circumstances there is coverage under the Workmen's 
ComDensation Law. (Matter of Heidemann v. American Dist. Tel. Co., 230 N.Y. 
305,130 N.E. 302; Matter ofLeonbruno v. Champlain SilkMills, 229 N.Y. 470,128 
N.E. 711,13 A.L.R. 522; Matter of Ramos v. Taxi Tr. Co., 276 App.Div. 101,106, 
92 N.Y.S.2d 744,748, affd. 301 N.Y. 749,95 N.E.2d 625; Matter of Christiansen v. 
Hill Reproduction Co., 262 App.Div. 379,29 N.YS2d 24, affd. 287 N.Y. 690,39 
N.E.2d300; MatterofLanniv. AmsterdamBldg. Co.,217App.Div. 278,216N.Y.S. 
763; Rosmuth v. American Radiator Co., 201 App.Div. 207, 193 N.Y.S.2d 769; 1 
Larson, Workmen's Compensation Law, 9 1 1.33.) (Emphasis supplied.) 
(See also Fiorello v. Anastasi Bros. Co., 280 N.Y.S.2d 884 [ 19671 [where baker arrived for work 
at employer's plant in rural area at 6:30 a.m., parked his automobile near garage doors leading into 
the plant and upon alighting was struck on the head by an unknown assailant and robbed of his wallet 
and ring, there was no claim of a personal or private animus unconnected with employment, and 
there was no contention that incident did not occur within time and space limits of employment, the 
accident was compensable as 'arising out of and during course of employment'); but see Macari v. 
N. Y. Mid-Hudson Trans-Corp. (241 N.Y.S.2d 627 [1963] [accidental injury arising out of and in 
the course of employment was not established as causing the death of employee who was found 
murdered by an unknown assailant in his wife's automobile parked at the place where he customarily 
parked it while waiting for his place of employment to open].) 
The superintendent in Tor0 was unquestionably engaged in his employment by virtue of the 
6 [* 6]
c 
4 
need to repair a boiler in a secluded location at a late hour of the night. Here, on the other hand, the 
plaintiff and his wife were entering the public portion of the premises, and plaintiff was clearly not 
engaged in his employment duties when the assault began. The fact that the plaintiff checked the 
garbage is irrelevant, because the assault did not occur when the plaintiff was checking the garbage, 
and was not connected to his performance of that task. In addition, it is not clear that Juan Cardena 
was a full time employee, but in any event plaintiff, even if subject to being “on duty,” was not 
actually engaged in the course of his employment at the time of the assault. Nor could the fact that * 
a call for the plaintirs services was made convert the assualt into one connected with plaintiffs 
employment, since plaintiff was clearly not performing his employment duties at the time of the 
assault. 
Under these circumstances, Workers Compensation is not a bar to the maintenance of this 
action. 
Court’s Charge on Proximate Cause 
It has been the experience of this court, and apparently the experience of may of other jurists, 
that jurors are often cofised by the “substantial factor” instruction in the PJI, and often erroneously 
equate the term “substantial factor” with degrees of fault. (See, e.g., the comment of the dissenting 
justice in Kovit v. Estate of Hallums, 261 A.D. 2d 442,690 N.Y.S. 2d 82 [2 Dept. 19991. The PJI 
instructions has thus resulted in both inconsistent verdicts and/or verdicts which are not supported 
by the record. Consequently, in order to avoid juror confusion and an erroneous verdict it was 
deemed necessary by this court to embellish and expand upon the bare bones PJI version which, 
when left unexplained, invites jurors to speculate. Indeed, the PJI itself invites the Court to modify 
the standard charge. (PJI 2;70, 3rd Ed., at page 328, states. “Although the pattern charge thus states 
7 [* 7]
a correct principle of law, it will be more readily understood by lay jurors if the principle is expanded 
upon and related to the facts of the particular case. The law must not only be stated accurately but 
‘be reduced to terms likely to be understood by the jury.’[Citation omitted.].” 
The expanded charge was appropriate in all respects. 
CPLR Article 16 Apportionment 
The First Department has recently adopted conflicting determinations as to whether Article 
16 apportionment is available in premises security cases. (See Roseboro v. NYCTA, 20001 N.Y. 
App. Div. LEXIS 7822; Concepcion v. NYCHHC, 20001 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7823; Chianese 
v. Meier, 20001 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7824.) The plaintiff did in fact plead exceptions to the 
applicability of Article 16.’ Until the issue is further clarified by appellate rulings, this court will 
adhere to its determination that apportionment with intentional tortfeasors in a case of this type is 
not warranted, and was not intended by the Legislature. 
Evidence of Permanent Injuries 
Although the expert psychologist, Dr Aranda, who examined the plaintiffs in June, 2000, and 
issued a report dated November 27,2000, did not specifically state that the psychological injuries 
were permanent, this was indeed implicit in his findings, and thus defendants can not genuinely 
claim either surprise or prejudice. 
2See amended answer. However, contrary to plaintiffs arguments, CPLR 1602(2)(iv) 
(relating to nondelegable duties) is not an exception to apportionment under CPLR article 16. 
Rangolan v. County of Nassau, 2001 WL 301932 (N.Y.), 2001 N.Y. Slip Op. 02793. 
8 [* 8]
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Defendants “cross-move” for summary judgment on the severed cause of action for unlawful 
eviction, on the ground that the employment relationship of the plaintiff-tenants had terminated at 
the time the alleged “lock out” occurred. However, the motion was not brought within the 120 day 
time limitation of the CPLR. That part of the “cross-motion” which seeks to amend the answer to 
raise the affirmative defense of res judicata is granted pursuant to CPLR 3025 (b). 
CONCLUSION 
The motion to set aside the verdict is denied. The cross-motion to set the remaining causes 
of action down for trial is granted. 
The parties are directed to appear in the STP 
conference and trial assignment. 
9 [* 9]
