95 Van Dam Corp. v V-Dog Home Corp.
2001 NY Slip Op 30084(U)
March 19, 2001
Sup Ct, New York
Docket Number: 100856/98
Judge: Paula J. Omansky
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 47 ~~~~~ 3, ~~~~~~~~~~~? 
PRESENT: PART 
Justice 
INDEX NO. 
MOTION DATE nW -v- 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
The following papers, numbered 1 to were read on this motion to/for 
1 PAPERS NUMBERED 
I I 
I 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits ... 
Replying Affidavits I 
Cross-Motion: c] Yes E! No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
Check one: FINAL DISPOSITION NON-FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1]
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK 
COUNTY OF NEW YORK: IAS PART 47 
95 VAN DAM CORP. , -X ........................................... 
Index No.100856/98 
DECISION AND ORDER Plaintiff , 
-against- 
Third-party Plaintiff, 
-against - 
BRITISH KHAKI FURNITURE, INC. 
Defendant. 
X ___________-________------------------------ 
PAULA J. OMANSKY, J.: 
Plaintiff 95 Van Dam Corp. moves for an order that defendant 
V-Dog Home Corp. is collaterally estopped to deny that its failure 
and refusal to execute the plaintiff's alteration applications 
constituted a breach of the condominium's by-laws. In addition, 
plaintiff moves to amend the complaint or to deem the pleading to 
conform to the proof to add allegations that defendant's breach of 
the by-laws coupled with the plaintiff's inability to re-rent the 
basement space constitutes an actionable claim. 
Defendant cross-moves, pursuant to CPLR 3212 (b) , to dismiss 
plaintiff's complaint on the ground that the fifth and final cause 
of action for damages has no merit 
FACTS 
Plaintiff is the owner of a commercial condominium unit in a 
1 [* 2]
building located on 95 Van Dam Street in Manhattan. Plaintiff's 
unit consists of the cellar and ground floor of the premises. 
Defendant is the building's condominium association. 
At some point, plaintiff entered into a lease with British 
Khaki Furniture Inc. ("British Furniture"), the third-party 
defendant. In March 1997, British Khaki vacated the premises, 
allegedly because plaintiff failed to provide the promised 
ventilation system which was essential for proper operation of 
British Khaki's furniture finishing business. According to 
plaintiff, defendant failed to properly and timely consider its 
request to install a ventilation system. Plaintiff maintains that 
defendant's failure to approve its alteration request lead to 
British Khaki's decision to quit the premises. 
Plaintiff re-rented the ground floor to J Squared. The 
unvented cellar remained vacant until January 2, 2000, when the 
space was lease to Herbert Wolf & Company, a non-party, with rent 
commencing on May 1, 2000 at the rate of $6,300 per month. 
Defendant alleges that plaintiff has suffered mo monetary harm 
because J Squared's monthly rent was higher than the fee charged to 
British Khaki. The exact amount of J Squared's rent is not stated 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
In a decision dated May 22, 1998, the Honorable Sheila Abdus- 
Salaam noted that plaintiff knowingly permitted its commercial 
condominium unit to be used in violation of the certificate of 
occupancy for that unit. The original certificate of occupancy for 
that portion of the premises provided that the first floor was to 
2 [* 3]
be used as a photo studio and that the cellar was to be used for 
storage. Justice Abdus-Salaam held that this type of usage was 
consistent with zoning use group 6. However, plaintiff did not 
sub-lease the premises to a zone 6-type business but instead 
entered into an agreement with a furniture manufacture which comes 
under zoning use group 17. Officials from the Department of 
Buildings said that use group 17 would be permitted and approved a 
proposed plan for installing a ventilation system. However, the 
prior court held that there was no evidence that the certificate of 
occupancy was actually modified by the Board of Standards and 
Appeals as required by section 645(e) of the New York City Charter. 
In a decision dated October 9, 1998, Justice Abdus-Salaam 
denied plaintiff's motion to renew and for leave to amend the 
complaint on the ground that Board of Standards and Appeals had not 
yet modified the certificate of occupancy. 
However, the prior court permitted discovery and eventually 
granted plaintiff Is motion to amend the complaint to include a 
request for declaratory relief and a fifth cause of action for 
damages. In a decision dated September 15, 1999, Justice Abdus- 
Salaam also granted plaintiff summary judgment on the second cause 
of action holding that 
discovery has revealed that defendant failed to comply 
with the condominium's by-laws in rejecting plaintiff's 
applications by holding board meetings without proper 
notice to all directors, including plaintiff's principal 
Mr. Silverstein, as required by Article IV, Section 6 of 
the By-Laws. Nor did the board obtain waivers from 
absentee directors. Plaintiff has now demonstrated that 
defendant's denial of its applications was not the result 
of a "duly constituted meeting" and thereby ineffective. 
Thils, since defendant never properly acted in response to 
3 [* 4]
plaintiff's application, much less within the 30 days 
required by Article VI, Section 14 of the By-Laws, 
defendant is deemed to have consented to the 
applications. 
Further, since the denial of the initial renewal motion, 
the Buildings Department has issued a corrected 
certificate of occupancy ('IC of o"), which moots 
defendant's objections to the applications. In January 
199, this court denied defendant's motion to vacate the 
new c of 0, indicating that such relief be sought through 
an Article 78 proceeding. However, defendant has not 
availed itself of this relief and the time to do so has 
expired. 
(September 1999 order, at 1-2). Defendant had not submitted any 
evidence that it appealed Justice Abdus-Salaam's decision to grant 
plaintiff summary judgment on the issue of liability 
The remaining claims were eventually transferred to Justice 
Beatrice Shainswit for trial. On the first day of the trial, 
Justice Shainswit found a discrepancy between plaintiff's theories 
of the case and the amended complaint. Noting that events 
subsequent to the first amendment of the complaint warranted re- 
pleading, the court directed plaintiff counsel to make a motion 
conforming plaintiff's pleadings to its proof and theory of the 
case. 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant's cross motion to dismiss the fifth cause of action 
for damages is denied. It is established, as law of the case, that 
plaintiff's claim is sufficiently plead (Goodstein Contr. Corp. v 
City of New York, 80 NY2d 366, 371 [1992]). Moreover, defendant 
may not now collaterally challenge Justice Abdus-Salaam's 
determination that defendant is liable to plaintiff for any 
resulting damages. Justice Abdus-Salaam has already ruled, as a 
4 [* 5]
matter of law, that "defendant never properly acted in response to 
plaintiff Is application" and that by this omission defendant "is 
deemed to have consented to the applications" (September 1999 
order, at 1-2). Therefore, plaintiff's motion to bar defendant 
from submitting evidence on the question of liability is granted. 
This court shall also permit pleading to be amended to conform 
to the evidence and theory of the case (CPLR 3025[c]). Defendant 
is not prejudiced since plaintiff has claimed from the inception of 
the action that it was damaged by defendant's delay. Moreover, upon 
appropriate proof, plaintiff is entitled to recover any damages for 
sums it has expended in reliance on defendant's obligation that it 
would timely and in good faith consider plaintiff's application to 
install a ventilation system (Goodstein Contr. Corp. v City of New 
York, supra, 80 NY2d, at 372). In addition to any out of pocket 
expenses, plaintiff is also entitled to damages for lost profits it 
would have realized if the defendant had not improperly withheld it 
consent (ibid. ) . 
As to defendant's remaining objections to the amendment, the 
court shall grant a continuance to permit, where appropriate, 
limited discovery on the issue of damages claimed in the amended 
pleading (CPLR 3025 [cl) . Although a prior court has determined the 
issue of liability by finding that defendant improperly withheld 
its consent, that ruling does not bar defendant from challenging 
the amount of the alleged damages. Plaintiff must still show that 
the damages are based "upon reliable factors without undue 
speculation" (Ashland Mqt., Inc. v Janien, 82 NY2d 395, 403 [19931) 
5 [* 6]
and that the damages are directly attributable to defendant's 
breach (International Systems. A Div. of Interedes (U.S.A.) v 
Delcrete Corp. , 103 AD2d 1008, 1009 [4th Dept 19841 ; cf. Halkedis 
v Two East End Ave. Apartment Corp., 161 AD2d 281, 282-283 [lst 
Dept] appeal denied 76 NY2d 711 [1990]). Defendant may properly 
raise a claim that plaintiff is not entitled to any damages for 
lost profits because it obtained a higher rent from Jay Squared 
than it was entitled to receive from British Khaki (Wade Lupe 
Contr. Co., Inc. v B & J Roofinq Co., 84 AD2d 615 [3d Dept 19811 
affd 55 NY2d 993 [1982]; E, American List Corp. v U.S. News and 
World Report, Inc., 75 NY2d 38, 44 [1989] [court may consider costs 
saved by plaintiff as a result of the breach]). 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that plaintiff's motion to amend the complaint in 
accordance with CPLR 3025(c) is granted and the amended compliant 
in the proposed form annexed to the moving papers shall, be deemed 
served upon service of a copy of this order with notice of entry 
thereof; and it is further 
ORDERED that defendant shall serve a responsive pleading to 
the amended compliant within 20 days from the date of said service; 
and it is further 
ORDERED that plaintiff's motion to preclude defendant from 
introducing evidence on the issue of liability is granted; and it 
is further 
ORDERED that defendant's cross motion to dismiss is denied; 
and it is further 
6 [* 7]
ORDERED that the parties are directed to appear for a &-- 
jP -{KtQ conference on @A'&, 2001, at //;flo a.m. at 71 Thomas Street, 
J 
Room 205, New York, N.Y. 0' 
DATED: March q, 2001 fjP 
PAUL J. OMANSKY 
J.S.C. 
7 [* 8]
