40 West 67th Street Corp. v Pullman
2001 NY Slip Op 30003(U)
July 6, 2001
Supreme Court, New York County
Docket Number: 4_30012/1783
Judge: Marilyn Shafer
Republished from New York State Unified Court
System's E-Courts Service.
Search E-Courts (http://www.nycourts.gov/ecourts) for
any additional information on this case.
This opinion is uncorrected and not selected for official
publication.SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK - NEW YORK COUNTY 
PART 36 
INDEX NO. 121 783100 
MOTION DATE 
MOTION SEQ. NO. 001 
MOTION CAL. NO. 
fendant(s1. 
were read on this motion to/for Summary. 
I PAPERS NUMBERED 
I Notice of Motion/ Order to Show Cause - Affidavits - Exhibits 
Answering Affidavits - Exhibits 
Replying Affidavits 
C Yes 
0 No 
Upon the foregoing papers, it is ordered that this motion 
b- 
.. 
Dated: Julv 2000 
\ 
Check one: [ I FINAL DISPOSITION [ I NON -FINAL DISPOSITION [* 1 ]
40 WEST 67TH STREET CORP., 
Plaintiff, 
Index No. 
 121783/00 
-against- 
DAVID PULLMAN, "JOHN DOE" and "JANE DOE," 
Defendants. 
_-__-_______________------------_-------- X 
MARILYN SHAFER, J.: 
Defendant David Pullman ("Pullman") moves for an order 
dismissing the Complaint, in an action seeking, primarily, 
Pullman's ejection from a cooperative apartment because of his 
allegedly objectionable behavior. 
present motion be converted to one for summary judgment, pursuant 
to CPLR 
3211(c), and that judgment be granted in its favor. Plaintiff asks that the 
I. Facts 
Plaintiff 40 West 67th Street Corp. is the owner of a 
residential apartment cooperative located at 40 West 67th Street 
(the "Co-op"). Pullman has been the resident of Apartment 7B in 
the Co-op since October 1998, pursuant to a proprietary lease. 
He is also the owner of 80 shares of capital stock in the Co-op. 
Shortly after Pullman moved into his apartment, he 
began to complain to the Co-op's managing agent, and the Co-op 
Board's President, Brian Pusch, about noises emanating from the 
1 [* 2 ]
apartment above him. 
were in vain. 
that he has 
commenced a total of four lawsuits against his 
upstairs neighbors and the Co -op, in an effort to stop the noise, 
and recover damages. 
(Index No. 
100268/00) (seeking damages) and Pullman v Indictor, et 
al. 
assigned to this court. He maintains, however, that his efforts 
Pullman has found the situation so distressing, 
Two of them, Pullman v Indictor, et al. 
(Index No. 
100122/00)(seeking injunctive relief), have been 
The situation eventually deteriorated to such an 
extent, that Pullman claims to have been physically assaulted by 
his upstairs neighbor, Norman Indictor 
 ("Indictor"), allegedly 
the source of the noise, which assault 
 resulted 
 in 
Indictor's 
arrest.' Following the alleged assault, Pullman issued a leaflet 
to the other Co-op shareholders, captioned, "Attack 
Crime,11 
notifying them, in considerable detail, of the alleged assault 
upon him by Indictor. 
op's shareholders followed. Several other similar letters to the Co- 
Closely following this court's decision to dismiss the 
action entitled Pullman v Indictor, 
supra, as against the Co-op, but not as against Indictor and his 
wife, Rina, a special meeting of the shareholders was held to 
discuss the termination of 
Pullman's 
 tenancy. et al. (Index No. 
100122/00), 
Under Article I11 (First) of 
 Pullman's 
 proprietary 
'Indictor pleaded to an adjournment contemplating dismissal. 
2 [* 3 ]
lease, a shareholder's tenancy may be terminated on 30 days' 
notice, by a vote of the owners of two-thirds of the capital 
stock of the Co-op, at a special shareholders' meeting, on the 
ground of the 
shareholder's "objectionable conduct" as a tenant. 
Pullman received timely notice that such a special meeting would 
be held, but did not attend. 
At the meeting, held on June 27, 2000, a resolution was 
passed declaring Pullman's tenancy to be undesirable. Some of 
the grounds cited in the resolution are the circulation of the 
various written statements, which the resolution characterized as 
defamatory and derogatory; 
 "causing the arrest " of Indictor; and 
the 
commencing of the four lawsuits. 
Based on the shareholders' resolution, the Co-op served 
Pullman with a notice of termination of his lease as of August 
31, 2000, calling for the surrender of the premises as of that 
date. Pullman has not surrendered the premises. 
11. The Issues 
In this action, plaintiff seeks a judgment awarding it 
(1) possession of Pullman's apartment; (2) canceling Pullman's 
stock, and declaring plaintiff's right to issue and sell stock 
for the apartment; (3) damages for Pullman's use and occupancy of 
the apartment; and (4) 
attorney's fees and costs under Pullman's 
proprietary lease. After the present motion was submitted, 
plaintiff served an Amended Complaint as of right, seeking the 
3 [* 4 ]
same relief, but adding the legal and/or factual basis for each 
cause of action, apparently in response to the issues raised in 
the present motion. 
substantially different from the original Complaint, the court 
shall address the motion to dismiss as if it were directed to the 
Amended Complaint. Since the Amended Complaint is not 
Pullman argues that the action cannot be maintained, 
because, under Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law 
("RPAPL") 711(1), plaintiff does not have the right to eject 
Pullman based only on a shareholders' vote, and without a hearing 
on the issue of whether Pullman's tenancy is actually 
"objectionable. " Pullman also argues, in his reply to the 
motion, that (1) the present action is retaliatory under Real 
Property Law 223-b; and (2) his written statements to the other 
shareholders are protected by a qualified privilege. 
Plaintiff, in its opposition, maintains that the 
business judgment rule prohibits the court from second-guessing 
the decision of the Co-op Board, in the absence of any showing of 
a discriminatory reason for terminating Pullman's tenancy. 
In a conference before this court on June 1, 2001, 
plaintiff's request to have the present motion treated as one for 
summary judgment under CPLR 3211(c) was granted. Plaintiff 
submitted additional papers on the matter on June 20, 2001. No 
further submissions have been received from Pullman. 
4 [* 5 ]
111. Discussion 
RPAPL 711(1) states, in pertinent part: 
A proceeding seeking to recover possession of real 
property by reason of the termination of the term fixed 
in the lease pursuant to a provision contained therein 
giving the landlord the right to terminate the time 
fixed for occupancy under such agreement if he deem the 
tenant objectionable, shall not be maintained unless 
the landlord shall by competent evidence establish to 
the satisfaction of the court that the tenant is 
objectionable [emphasis added] . 
The Appellate Term, First Department, has found that 
the requirements of RPAPL 711(1) apply to a holdover proceeding 
brought by a co-op against a shareholder-tenant "under a 
proprietary lease providing for termination of the tenancy upon a 
finding of undesirability by the Board of 
Directors." Adams 
Hotel Owners, Inc. v Wolf, 64 Misc 2d 614, 615 (App Term, 1st 
Dept, NY County 1969). Where the cooperative sought to terminate 
a shareholder's tenancy based on allegedly objectionable conduct, 
the Appellate Term required that there be a basis for the court 
to make a determination concerning the charges, whether by the 
submission of an agreed statement of facts, or a trial. Id. 
Further, in Brisbane House, Inc. v Sims (122 Misc 2d 46 
[Civ Ct, NY County 1983]), the court found that RPAPL 711(1) 
applies to the termination of a cooperative tenancy in a holdover 
proceeding, despite the language in the shareholder's proprietary 
lease specifically permitting the termination of the tenancy upon 
a shareholders' vote upon a finding of objectionable conduct on 
5 [* 6 ]
the part of the shareholder in question. 
In Brisbane, shareholders in a cooperative voted to 
terminate the tenancy of a fellow shareholder due to his 
objectionable conduct (or that of persons living in or visiting 
the apartment), based on a lease provision allowing for such a 
vote. The vote was followed by the service of a notice of 
termination and the 
commencement of a holdover proceeding, 
on the shareholders' contractual right to decide for themselves 
with whom they wished to share the cooperative. The Brisbane 
court, relying on RPAPL 711(1) and Adams Hotel Owners, Inc. v 
Wolf, supra, reasoned that allowing a cooperative to evict a 
shareholder/tenant before the underlying charges of nuisance had 
been proven before a court, would impermissibly enlarge the 
cooperative's rights, and would "invest the shareholders with 
powers of forfeiture that belong clearly to a court of law." 
Brisbane House, Inc. v Sims, supra, at 49. based 
In spite of the summary nature of the holdover 
proceeding to which RPAPL 711(1) is addressed, the statute still 
requires that a cooperative, "by competent evidence establish to 
the court's satisfaction that a tenant is objectionable "; That 
is, that an evidentiary hearing must precede any forfeiture of 
the tenancy. On similar policy grounds, in an ejectment action, 
which need not be summary in nature, a complete search of the 
record to determine whether grounds for the ejectment exist 
6 [* 7 ]
should be the rule, regardless of the contractual mechanism which 
the cooperative has created to simplify the process. The form of 
the action or proceeding should not determine whether a 
cooperative tenancy may be forfeited based only on a resolution 
of shareholders at a shareholders' meeting. 
Based on this finding, and the sensible and clear 
holdings in Adams Hotel Owners, Inc. v Wolf, supra, and Brisbane 
House, Inc. v Sims, supra, this court concludes that the Co-op in 
the present action may not summarily terminate Pullman's tenancy 
based on a shareholders' vote finding Pullman's tenancy to be 
objectionable, but must prove that claim to this court's 
satisfaction, based on competent evidence. The fact that the 
grounds for the shareholders' resolution in the present case may 
be more detailed than the allegations of objectionability set 
forth by the shareholders in Brisbane, supra, does not serve to 
distinguish Brisbane from the present case in any meaningful way. 
Plaintiff insists that, under the business judgment 
rule, this court cannot re-open the issue of Pullman's 
suitability as a tenant, but may only examine the Co-op's 
decision to oust Pullman to determine if it was rational, and 
free of discriminatory purpose. However, the business judgment 
rule is not applicable here. The business judgment rule 
"prohibits judicial enquiry into actions of corporate directors 
'taken in good faith and in the exercise of honest judgment in 
7 [* 8 ]
the lawful and legitimate furtherance of corporate powers' 
[citation omitted] . 
'I 
Corp., 75 NY2d 530, 537 (1990). In Levandusky, a version of the 
business judgment rule was applied to shield the decision of a 
cooperative board of directors in enforcing the cooperative's 
rules against certain types of renovations. Levandusky v One Fifth Avenue Apartment 
The Court in Levandusky, recognizing that the world of 
business corporations differed from that of the ordinary 
cooperative or condominium, determined that decisions of a 
cooperative board of directors should be upheld "[s]o long as the 
board acts for the purposes of the cooperative, within the scope 
of its authority and in good faith ... ." Id. at 538. In the 
present case, the Co-op Board, in issuing a Notice of Termination 
based only on a shareholders' vote finding Pullman's tenancy 
objectionable, acted beyond its authority, in that it is the 
province of the court, after due consideration of the evidence, 
to determine whether a tenancy should terminate on this ground. 
RPAPL 711 (1); Adams Hotel Owners, Inc. v Wolf, supra; Brisbane 
House, Inc. v Sims, supra. 
Plaintiff's motion for summary judgment is denied. 
Plaintiff's reiteration of its case against Pullman does not 
alter the fact that numerous disputes exist concerning the events 
upon which the Co-op based its finding of Pullman's alleged 
objectionability. These factual issues, including Pullman's 
8 [* 9 ]
claim that the present action is retaliatory in nature, under 
Real Property Law § 223-b, must be tried. In light of the sharp 
factual disputes, whether the present case rests on a "sound 
legal foundation " must be determined by the facts which emerge in 
the course of this litigation. See, Walentas v Johnes, 257 AD2d 
352, 354 (1st Dept 
1999)(action by landlord having a "sound legal 
foundation " cannot be said to be so devoid of merit as to be 
undeniably attributable to retaliatory motives). 
Plaintiff is correct, however, in decrying Pullman's 
reliance on the doctrine of qualified privilege, as a defense to 
plaintiff's claim that Pullman's written complaints against his 
neighbors and the Co-op were objectionable. Qualified privilege 
is a defense to an action sounding in defamation. See, William 
Stevens, Ltd. v Kings Village Corp., 234 AD2d 288 (2d Dept 
1996)(qualified privilege defense to defamation claim arising 
from statements made at shareholders' meeting). It is irrelevant 
to the present situation, where no action for defamation has been 
raised. 
IV. Conclusion 
As originally pled, the Complaint would have to be 
dismissed, because plaintiff's sole cause of action seeking the 
termination of Pullman's tenancy was based on the finality of the 
shareholders' vote, and the Notice of Termination issued by the 
Co-op Board. In the Amended Complaint, this claim is contained 
9 [* 10 ]
in the first cause of action, and so, must 
be 
dismissed. 
However, plaintiff's second cause of action in the 
Amended Complaint alleges that plaintiff is entitled to judgment 
awarding it possession of the apartment because "defendant 
Pullman's tenancy is objectionable. " 
Since this is the very issue which, by law, 
requires a trial, 
plaintiff has pleaded a viable cause of action. 
claims, for permission to issue new shares for the apartment, and Amended Complaint, 
 ¶ 18. 
The other 
to recover damages, flow from the second cause of action, and ma: 
be maintained. However, numerous factual issues 
preclude 
 the 
grant of summary judgment to plaintiff, pursuant to CPLR 3211 
Accordingly, it is 
ORDERED that the motion to dismiss is granted only as 
to the first cause of action in the Amended Complaint, and this 
cause of action is hereby dismissed; and it is further 
ORDERED that plaintiff's request to treat the present 
motion as one for summary judgment under CPL,R 3211(c) is granted; 
and it is further 
ORDERED that plaintiff's motion for summary judgment is 
denied; and it is further 
ORDERED that defendant is directed to serve an answer 
to the Amended Complaint within 10 days after service of a copy 
of this order with Notice of Entry. 
10 [* 11 ]
Dated: 
 ~ 
ENTER: 
11 [* 12 ]
